== CeCILL Free Software License Agreement v2.1 (CECILL-2.1)

[cols=",",options="header",]
|===
|Key |Value
|Fullname |CeCILL Free Software License Agreement v2.1
|Shortname |CECILL-2.1
|Rating |Unknown, probably Attention or Stop or No-Go
|Classification |WeakCopyleft
|Has Patent Hint |False
|===

*Other Names:*

* `+scancode://cecill-2.1+`
* `+CeCILL 2.1+`
* `+Cea Cnrs Inria Logiciel Libre License, Version 2.1+`
* `+License :: OSI Approved :: CEA CNRS Inria Logiciel Libre License, version 2.1 (CeCILL-2.1)+`
* `+CeCILL License 2.1+`

=== Description

____
Strong copyleft license made by three French public research
organisations, CEA, CNRS, and Inria, compatible with AGPL-3.0, EUPL-1.1,
and GPL-2.0, or later versions of those licenses.
____

(source: choosealicense.com
(https://github.com/github/choosealicense.com/blob/gh-pages/LICENSE.md[MIT]))

=== Comments on (easy) usability

* **↑**``Is OSI Approved'' (source:
https://spdx.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1.html[SPDX] (all data [in this
repository] is generated))

=== General Comments

=== Obligations

[cols=",,",options="header",]
|===
|Rights: |Conditions: |Limitations:
a|
* commercial-use
* modifications
* distribution
* private-use
* patent-use

a|
* include-copyright
* disclose-source
* same-license

a|
* liability
* warranty

|===

(source:
https://github.com/github/choosealicense.com/blob/gh-pages/_licenses/cecill-2.1.txt[choosealicense.com]
(https://github.com/github/choosealicense.com/blob/gh-pages/LICENSE.md[MIT]))

=== URLs

* *Homepage:*
http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-fr.html
* *OSI Page:* http://opensource.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1
* *SPDX:* http://spdx.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1.json
* http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-en.html

=== Text

....
  CeCILL FREE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT

Version 2.1 dated 2013-06-21


    Notice

This Agreement is a Free Software license agreement that is the result
of discussions between its authors in order to ensure compliance with
the two main principles guiding its drafting:

  * firstly, compliance with the principles governing the distribution
    of Free Software: access to source code, broad rights granted to users,
  * secondly, the election of a governing law, French law, with which it
    is conformant, both as regards the law of torts and intellectual
    property law, and the protection that it offers to both authors and
    holders of the economic rights over software.

The authors of the CeCILL (for Ce[a] C[nrs] I[nria] L[ogiciel] L[ibre]) 
license are: 

Commissariat à l'énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives - CEA, a
public scientific, technical and industrial research establishment,
having its principal place of business at 25 rue Leblanc, immeuble Le
Ponant D, 75015 Paris, France.

Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique - CNRS, a public scientific
and technological establishment, having its principal place of business
at 3 rue Michel-Ange, 75794 Paris cedex 16, France.

Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique -
Inria, a public scientific and technological establishment, having its
principal place of business at Domaine de Voluceau, Rocquencourt, BP
105, 78153 Le Chesnay cedex, France.


    Preamble

The purpose of this Free Software license agreement is to grant users
the right to modify and redistribute the software governed by this
license within the framework of an open source distribution model.

The exercising of this right is conditional upon certain obligations for
users so as to preserve this status for all subsequent redistributions.

In consideration of access to the source code and the rights to copy,
modify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only
with a limited warranty and the software's author, the holder of the
economic rights, and the successive licensors only have limited liability.

In this respect, the risks associated with loading, using, modifying
and/or developing or reproducing the software by the user are brought to
the user's attention, given its Free Software status, which may make it
complicated to use, with the result that its use is reserved for
developers and experienced professionals having in-depth computer
knowledge. Users are therefore encouraged to load and test the
suitability of the software as regards their requirements in conditions
enabling the security of their systems and/or data to be ensured and,
more generally, to use and operate it in the same conditions of
security. This Agreement may be freely reproduced and published,
provided it is not altered, and that no provisions are either added or
removed herefrom.

This Agreement may apply to any or all software for which the holder of
the economic rights decides to submit the use thereof to its provisions.

Frequently asked questions can be found on the official website of the
CeCILL licenses family (http://www.cecill.info/index.en.html) for any 
necessary clarification.


    Article 1 - DEFINITIONS

For the purpose of this Agreement, when the following expressions
commence with a capital letter, they shall have the following meaning:

Agreement: means this license agreement, and its possible subsequent
versions and annexes.

Software: means the software in its Object Code and/or Source Code form
and, where applicable, its documentation, "as is" when the Licensee
accepts the Agreement.

Initial Software: means the Software in its Source Code and possibly its
Object Code form and, where applicable, its documentation, "as is" when
it is first distributed under the terms and conditions of the Agreement.

Modified Software: means the Software modified by at least one
Contribution.

Source Code: means all the Software's instructions and program lines to
which access is required so as to modify the Software.

Object Code: means the binary files originating from the compilation of
the Source Code.

Holder: means the holder(s) of the economic rights over the Initial
Software.

Licensee: means the Software user(s) having accepted the Agreement.

Contributor: means a Licensee having made at least one Contribution.

Licensor: means the Holder, or any other individual or legal entity, who
distributes the Software under the Agreement.

Contribution: means any or all modifications, corrections, translations,
adaptations and/or new functions integrated into the Software by any or
all Contributors, as well as any or all Internal Modules.

Module: means a set of sources files including their documentation that
enables supplementary functions or services in addition to those offered
by the Software.

External Module: means any or all Modules, not derived from the
Software, so that this Module and the Software run in separate address
spaces, with one calling the other when they are run.

Internal Module: means any or all Module, connected to the Software so
that they both execute in the same address space.

GNU GPL: means the GNU General Public License version 2 or any
subsequent version, as published by the Free Software Foundation Inc.

GNU Affero GPL: means the GNU Affero General Public License version 3 or
any subsequent version, as published by the Free Software Foundation Inc.

EUPL: means the European Union Public License version 1.1 or any
subsequent version, as published by the European Commission.

Parties: mean both the Licensee and the Licensor.

These expressions may be used both in singular and plural form.


    Article 2 - PURPOSE

The purpose of the Agreement is the grant by the Licensor to the
Licensee of a non-exclusive, transferable and worldwide license for the
Software as set forth in Article 5 <#scope> hereinafter for the whole
term of the protection granted by the rights over said Software.


    Article 3 - ACCEPTANCE

3.1 The Licensee shall be deemed as having accepted the terms and
conditions of this Agreement upon the occurrence of the first of the
following events:

  * (i) loading the Software by any or all means, notably, by
    downloading from a remote server, or by loading from a physical medium;
  * (ii) the first time the Licensee exercises any of the rights granted
    hereunder.

3.2 One copy of the Agreement, containing a notice relating to the
characteristics of the Software, to the limited warranty, and to the
fact that its use is restricted to experienced users has been provided
to the Licensee prior to its acceptance as set forth in Article 3.1
<#accepting> hereinabove, and the Licensee hereby acknowledges that it
has read and understood it.


    Article 4 - EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM


      4.1 EFFECTIVE DATE

The Agreement shall become effective on the date when it is accepted by
the Licensee as set forth in Article 3.1 <#accepting>.


      4.2 TERM

The Agreement shall remain in force for the entire legal term of
protection of the economic rights over the Software.


    Article 5 - SCOPE OF RIGHTS GRANTED

The Licensor hereby grants to the Licensee, who accepts, the following
rights over the Software for any or all use, and for the term of the
Agreement, on the basis of the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter.

Besides, if the Licensor owns or comes to own one or more patents
protecting all or part of the functions of the Software or of its
components, the Licensor undertakes not to enforce the rights granted by
these patents against successive Licensees using, exploiting or
modifying the Software. If these patents are transferred, the Licensor
undertakes to have the transferees subscribe to the obligations set
forth in this paragraph.


      5.1 RIGHT OF USE

The Licensee is authorized to use the Software, without any limitation
as to its fields of application, with it being hereinafter specified
that this comprises:

 1. permanent or temporary reproduction of all or part of the Software
    by any or all means and in any or all form.

 2. loading, displaying, running, or storing the Software on any or all
    medium.

 3. entitlement to observe, study or test its operation so as to
    determine the ideas and principles behind any or all constituent
    elements of said Software. This shall apply when the Licensee
    carries out any or all loading, displaying, running, transmission or
    storage operation as regards the Software, that it is entitled to
    carry out hereunder.


      5.2 ENTITLEMENT TO MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS

The right to make Contributions includes the right to translate, adapt,
arrange, or make any or all modifications to the Software, and the right
to reproduce the resulting software.

The Licensee is authorized to make any or all Contributions to the
Software provided that it includes an explicit notice that it is the
author of said Contribution and indicates the date of the creation thereof.


      5.3 RIGHT OF DISTRIBUTION

In particular, the right of distribution includes the right to publish,
transmit and communicate the Software to the general public on any or
all medium, and by any or all means, and the right to market, either in
consideration of a fee, or free of charge, one or more copies of the
Software by any means.

The Licensee is further authorized to distribute copies of the modified
or unmodified Software to third parties according to the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter.


        5.3.1 DISTRIBUTION OF SOFTWARE WITHOUT MODIFICATION

The Licensee is authorized to distribute true copies of the Software in
Source Code or Object Code form, provided that said distribution
complies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:

 1. a copy of the Agreement,

 2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty
    and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,

and that, in the event that only the Object Code of the Software is
redistributed, the Licensee allows effective access to the full Source
Code of the Software for a period of at least three years from the
distribution of the Software, it being understood that the additional
acquisition cost of the Source Code shall not exceed the cost of the
data transfer.


        5.3.2 DISTRIBUTION OF MODIFIED SOFTWARE

When the Licensee makes a Contribution to the Software, the terms and
conditions for the distribution of the resulting Modified Software
become subject to all the provisions of this Agreement.

The Licensee is authorized to distribute the Modified Software, in
source code or object code form, provided that said distribution
complies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:

 1. a copy of the Agreement,

 2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty
    and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,

and, in the event that only the object code of the Modified Software is
redistributed,

 3. a note stating the conditions of effective access to the full source
    code of the Modified Software for a period of at least three years
    from the distribution of the Modified Software, it being understood
    that the additional acquisition cost of the source code shall not
    exceed the cost of the data transfer.


        5.3.3 DISTRIBUTION OF EXTERNAL MODULES

When the Licensee has developed an External Module, the terms and
conditions of this Agreement do not apply to said External Module, that
may be distributed under a separate license agreement.


        5.3.4 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER LICENSES

The Licensee can include a code that is subject to the provisions of one
of the versions of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL in the
Modified or unmodified Software, and distribute that entire code under
the terms of the same version of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL.

The Licensee can include the Modified or unmodified Software in a code
that is subject to the provisions of one of the versions of the GNU GPL,
GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL and distribute that entire code under the
terms of the same version of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL.


    Article 6 - INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY


      6.1 OVER THE INITIAL SOFTWARE

The Holder owns the economic rights over the Initial Software. Any or
all use of the Initial Software is subject to compliance with the terms
and conditions under which the Holder has elected to distribute its work
and no one shall be entitled to modify the terms and conditions for the
distribution of said Initial Software.

The Holder undertakes that the Initial Software will remain ruled at
least by this Agreement, for the duration set forth in Article 4.2 <#term>.


      6.2 OVER THE CONTRIBUTIONS

The Licensee who develops a Contribution is the owner of the
intellectual property rights over this Contribution as defined by
applicable law.


      6.3 OVER THE EXTERNAL MODULES

The Licensee who develops an External Module is the owner of the
intellectual property rights over this External Module as defined by
applicable law and is free to choose the type of agreement that shall
govern its distribution.


      6.4 JOINT PROVISIONS

The Licensee expressly undertakes:

 1. not to remove, or modify, in any manner, the intellectual property
    notices attached to the Software;

 2. to reproduce said notices, in an identical manner, in the copies of
    the Software modified or not.

The Licensee undertakes not to directly or indirectly infringe the
intellectual property rights on the Software of the Holder and/or
Contributors, and to take, where applicable, vis-à-vis its staff, any
and all measures required to ensure respect of said intellectual
property rights of the Holder and/or Contributors.


    Article 7 - RELATED SERVICES

7.1 Under no circumstances shall the Agreement oblige the Licensor to
provide technical assistance or maintenance services for the Software.

However, the Licensor is entitled to offer this type of services. The
terms and conditions of such technical assistance, and/or such
maintenance, shall be set forth in a separate instrument. Only the
Licensor offering said maintenance and/or technical assistance services
shall incur liability therefor.

7.2 Similarly, any Licensor is entitled to offer to its licensees, under
its sole responsibility, a warranty, that shall only be binding upon
itself, for the redistribution of the Software and/or the Modified
Software, under terms and conditions that it is free to decide. Said
warranty, and the financial terms and conditions of its application,
shall be subject of a separate instrument executed between the Licensor
and the Licensee.


    Article 8 - LIABILITY

8.1 Subject to the provisions of Article 8.2, the Licensee shall be
entitled to claim compensation for any direct loss it may have suffered
from the Software as a result of a fault on the part of the relevant
Licensor, subject to providing evidence thereof.

8.2 The Licensor's liability is limited to the commitments made under
this Agreement and shall not be incurred as a result of in particular:
(i) loss due the Licensee's total or partial failure to fulfill its
obligations, (ii) direct or consequential loss that is suffered by the
Licensee due to the use or performance of the Software, and (iii) more
generally, any consequential loss. In particular the Parties expressly
agree that any or all pecuniary or business loss (i.e. loss of data,
loss of profits, operating loss, loss of customers or orders,
opportunity cost, any disturbance to business activities) or any or all
legal proceedings instituted against the Licensee by a third party,
shall constitute consequential loss and shall not provide entitlement to
any or all compensation from the Licensor.


    Article 9 - WARRANTY

9.1 The Licensee acknowledges that the scientific and technical
state-of-the-art when the Software was distributed did not enable all
possible uses to be tested and verified, nor for the presence of
possible defects to be detected. In this respect, the Licensee's
attention has been drawn to the risks associated with loading, using,
modifying and/or developing and reproducing the Software which are
reserved for experienced users.

The Licensee shall be responsible for verifying, by any or all means,
the suitability of the product for its requirements, its good working
order, and for ensuring that it shall not cause damage to either persons
or properties.

9.2 The Licensor hereby represents, in good faith, that it is entitled
to grant all the rights over the Software (including in particular the
rights set forth in Article 5 <#scope>).

9.3 The Licensee acknowledges that the Software is supplied "as is" by
the Licensor without any other express or tacit warranty, other than
that provided for in Article 9.2 <#good-faith> and, in particular,
without any warranty as to its commercial value, its secured, safe,
innovative or relevant nature.

Specifically, the Licensor does not warrant that the Software is free
from any error, that it will operate without interruption, that it will
be compatible with the Licensee's own equipment and software
configuration, nor that it will meet the Licensee's requirements.

9.4 The Licensor does not either expressly or tacitly warrant that the
Software does not infringe any third party intellectual property right
relating to a patent, software or any other property right. Therefore,
the Licensor disclaims any and all liability towards the Licensee
arising out of any or all proceedings for infringement that may be
instituted in respect of the use, modification and redistribution of the
Software. Nevertheless, should such proceedings be instituted against
the Licensee, the Licensor shall provide it with technical and legal
expertise for its defense. Such technical and legal expertise shall be
decided on a case-by-case basis between the relevant Licensor and the
Licensee pursuant to a memorandum of understanding. The Licensor
disclaims any and all liability as regards the Licensee's use of the
name of the Software. No warranty is given as regards the existence of
prior rights over the name of the Software or as regards the existence
of a trademark.


    Article 10 - TERMINATION

10.1 In the event of a breach by the Licensee of its obligations
hereunder, the Licensor may automatically terminate this Agreement
thirty (30) days after notice has been sent to the Licensee and has
remained ineffective.

10.2 A Licensee whose Agreement is terminated shall no longer be
authorized to use, modify or distribute the Software. However, any
licenses that it may have granted prior to termination of the Agreement
shall remain valid subject to their having been granted in compliance
with the terms and conditions hereof.


    Article 11 - MISCELLANEOUS


      11.1 EXCUSABLE EVENTS

Neither Party shall be liable for any or all delay, or failure to
perform the Agreement, that may be attributable to an event of force
majeure, an act of God or an outside cause, such as defective
functioning or interruptions of the electricity or telecommunications
networks, network paralysis following a virus attack, intervention by
government authorities, natural disasters, water damage, earthquakes,
fire, explosions, strikes and labor unrest, war, etc.

11.2 Any failure by either Party, on one or more occasions, to invoke
one or more of the provisions hereof, shall under no circumstances be
interpreted as being a waiver by the interested Party of its right to
invoke said provision(s) subsequently.

11.3 The Agreement cancels and replaces any or all previous agreements,
whether written or oral, between the Parties and having the same
purpose, and constitutes the entirety of the agreement between said
Parties concerning said purpose. No supplement or modification to the
terms and conditions hereof shall be effective as between the Parties
unless it is made in writing and signed by their duly authorized
representatives.

11.4 In the event that one or more of the provisions hereof were to
conflict with a current or future applicable act or legislative text,
said act or legislative text shall prevail, and the Parties shall make
the necessary amendments so as to comply with said act or legislative
text. All other provisions shall remain effective. Similarly, invalidity
of a provision of the Agreement, for any reason whatsoever, shall not
cause the Agreement as a whole to be invalid.


      11.5 LANGUAGE

The Agreement is drafted in both French and English and both versions
are deemed authentic.


    Article 12 - NEW VERSIONS OF THE AGREEMENT

12.1 Any person is authorized to duplicate and distribute copies of this
Agreement.

12.2 So as to ensure coherence, the wording of this Agreement is
protected and may only be modified by the authors of the License, who
reserve the right to periodically publish updates or new versions of the
Agreement, each with a separate number. These subsequent versions may
address new issues encountered by Free Software.

12.3 Any Software distributed under a given version of the Agreement may
only be subsequently distributed under the same version of the Agreement
or a subsequent version, subject to the provisions of Article 5.3.4
<#compatibility>.


    Article 13 - GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION

13.1 The Agreement is governed by French law. The Parties agree to
endeavor to seek an amicable solution to any disagreements or disputes
that may arise during the performance of the Agreement.

13.2 Failing an amicable solution within two (2) months as from their
occurrence, and unless emergency proceedings are necessary, the
disagreements or disputes shall be referred to the Paris Courts having
jurisdiction, by the more diligent Party.
....

'''''

=== Raw Data

==== Facts

* LicenseName
* https://spdx.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1.html[SPDX] (all data [in this
repository] is generated)
* https://github.com/OpenChain-Project/curriculum/raw/ddf1e879341adbd9b297cd67c5d5c16b2076540b/policy-template/Open%20Source%20Policy%20Template%20for%20OpenChain%20Specification%201.2.ods[OpenChainPolicyTemplate]
(CC0-1.0)
* https://github.com/nexB/scancode-toolkit/blob/develop/src/licensedcode/data/licenses/cecill-2.1.yml[Scancode]
(CC0-1.0)
* https://github.com/github/choosealicense.com/blob/gh-pages/_licenses/cecill-2.1.txt[choosealicense.com]
(https://github.com/github/choosealicense.com/blob/gh-pages/LICENSE.md[MIT])
* https://opensource.org/licenses/[OpenSourceInitiative]
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode[CC-BY-4.0])
* https://github.com/HansHammel/license-compatibility-checker/blob/master/lib/licenses.json[HansHammel
license-compatibility-checker]
(https://github.com/HansHammel/license-compatibility-checker/blob/master/LICENSE[MIT])
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_free_and_open-source_software_licenses[Wikipedia]
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/legalcode[CC-BY-SA-3.0])
* https://github.com/okfn/licenses/blob/master/licenses.csv[Open
Knowledge International]
(https://opendatacommons.org/licenses/pddl/1-0/[PDDL-1.0])

==== Raw JSON

....
{
    "__impliedNames": [
        "CECILL-2.1",
        "CeCILL Free Software License Agreement v2.1",
        "scancode://cecill-2.1",
        "CeCILL 2.1",
        "cecill-2.1",
        "Cea Cnrs Inria Logiciel Libre License, Version 2.1",
        "License :: OSI Approved :: CEA CNRS Inria Logiciel Libre License, version 2.1 (CeCILL-2.1)",
        "CeCILL-2.1",
        "CeCILL License 2.1"
    ],
    "__impliedId": "CECILL-2.1",
    "__hasPatentHint": false,
    "facts": {
        "Open Knowledge International": {
            "is_generic": null,
            "legacy_ids": [],
            "status": "active",
            "domain_software": true,
            "url": "https://opensource.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1",
            "maintainer": "",
            "od_conformance": "not reviewed",
            "_sourceURL": "https://github.com/okfn/licenses/blob/master/licenses.csv",
            "domain_data": false,
            "osd_conformance": "approved",
            "id": "CECILL-2.1",
            "title": "CeCILL License 2.1",
            "_implications": {
                "__impliedNames": [
                    "CECILL-2.1",
                    "CeCILL License 2.1"
                ],
                "__impliedId": "CECILL-2.1",
                "__impliedURLs": [
                    [
                        null,
                        "https://opensource.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1"
                    ]
                ]
            },
            "domain_content": false
        },
        "LicenseName": {
            "implications": {
                "__impliedNames": [
                    "CECILL-2.1"
                ],
                "__impliedId": "CECILL-2.1"
            },
            "shortname": "CECILL-2.1",
            "otherNames": []
        },
        "SPDX": {
            "isSPDXLicenseDeprecated": false,
            "spdxFullName": "CeCILL Free Software License Agreement v2.1",
            "spdxDetailsURL": "http://spdx.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1.json",
            "_sourceURL": "https://spdx.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1.html",
            "spdxLicIsOSIApproved": true,
            "spdxSeeAlso": [
                "http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-en.html"
            ],
            "_implications": {
                "__impliedNames": [
                    "CECILL-2.1",
                    "CeCILL Free Software License Agreement v2.1"
                ],
                "__impliedId": "CECILL-2.1",
                "__impliedJudgement": [
                    [
                        "SPDX",
                        {
                            "tag": "PositiveJudgement",
                            "contents": "Is OSI Approved"
                        }
                    ]
                ],
                "__isOsiApproved": true,
                "__impliedURLs": [
                    [
                        "SPDX",
                        "http://spdx.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1.json"
                    ],
                    [
                        null,
                        "http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-en.html"
                    ]
                ]
            },
            "spdxLicenseId": "CECILL-2.1"
        },
        "Scancode": {
            "otherUrls": [
                "http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-en.html"
            ],
            "homepageUrl": "http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-fr.html",
            "shortName": "CeCILL 2.1",
            "textUrls": null,
            "text": "  CeCILL FREE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT\n\nVersion 2.1 dated 2013-06-21\n\n\n    Notice\n\nThis Agreement is a Free Software license agreement that is the result\nof discussions between its authors in order to ensure compliance with\nthe two main principles guiding its drafting:\n\n  * firstly, compliance with the principles governing the distribution\n    of Free Software: access to source code, broad rights granted to users,\n  * secondly, the election of a governing law, French law, with which it\n    is conformant, both as regards the law of torts and intellectual\n    property law, and the protection that it offers to both authors and\n    holders of the economic rights over software.\n\nThe authors of the CeCILL (for Ce[a] C[nrs] I[nria] L[ogiciel] L[ibre]) \nlicense are: \n\nCommissariat ÃÂ  l'ÃÂ©nergie atomique et aux ÃÂ©nergies alternatives - CEA, a\npublic scientific, technical and industrial research establishment,\nhaving its principal place of business at 25 rue Leblanc, immeuble Le\nPonant D, 75015 Paris, France.\n\nCentre National de la Recherche Scientifique - CNRS, a public scientific\nand technological establishment, having its principal place of business\nat 3 rue Michel-Ange, 75794 Paris cedex 16, France.\n\nInstitut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique -\nInria, a public scientific and technological establishment, having its\nprincipal place of business at Domaine de Voluceau, Rocquencourt, BP\n105, 78153 Le Chesnay cedex, France.\n\n\n    Preamble\n\nThe purpose of this Free Software license agreement is to grant users\nthe right to modify and redistribute the software governed by this\nlicense within the framework of an open source distribution model.\n\nThe exercising of this right is conditional upon certain obligations for\nusers so as to preserve this status for all subsequent redistributions.\n\nIn consideration of access to the source code and the rights to copy,\nmodify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only\nwith a limited warranty and the software's author, the holder of the\neconomic rights, and the successive licensors only have limited liability.\n\nIn this respect, the risks associated with loading, using, modifying\nand/or developing or reproducing the software by the user are brought to\nthe user's attention, given its Free Software status, which may make it\ncomplicated to use, with the result that its use is reserved for\ndevelopers and experienced professionals having in-depth computer\nknowledge. Users are therefore encouraged to load and test the\nsuitability of the software as regards their requirements in conditions\nenabling the security of their systems and/or data to be ensured and,\nmore generally, to use and operate it in the same conditions of\nsecurity. This Agreement may be freely reproduced and published,\nprovided it is not altered, and that no provisions are either added or\nremoved herefrom.\n\nThis Agreement may apply to any or all software for which the holder of\nthe economic rights decides to submit the use thereof to its provisions.\n\nFrequently asked questions can be found on the official website of the\nCeCILL licenses family (http://www.cecill.info/index.en.html) for any \nnecessary clarification.\n\n\n    Article 1 - DEFINITIONS\n\nFor the purpose of this Agreement, when the following expressions\ncommence with a capital letter, they shall have the following meaning:\n\nAgreement: means this license agreement, and its possible subsequent\nversions and annexes.\n\nSoftware: means the software in its Object Code and/or Source Code form\nand, where applicable, its documentation, \"as is\" when the Licensee\naccepts the Agreement.\n\nInitial Software: means the Software in its Source Code and possibly its\nObject Code form and, where applicable, its documentation, \"as is\" when\nit is first distributed under the terms and conditions of the Agreement.\n\nModified Software: means the Software modified by at least one\nContribution.\n\nSource Code: means all the Software's instructions and program lines to\nwhich access is required so as to modify the Software.\n\nObject Code: means the binary files originating from the compilation of\nthe Source Code.\n\nHolder: means the holder(s) of the economic rights over the Initial\nSoftware.\n\nLicensee: means the Software user(s) having accepted the Agreement.\n\nContributor: means a Licensee having made at least one Contribution.\n\nLicensor: means the Holder, or any other individual or legal entity, who\ndistributes the Software under the Agreement.\n\nContribution: means any or all modifications, corrections, translations,\nadaptations and/or new functions integrated into the Software by any or\nall Contributors, as well as any or all Internal Modules.\n\nModule: means a set of sources files including their documentation that\nenables supplementary functions or services in addition to those offered\nby the Software.\n\nExternal Module: means any or all Modules, not derived from the\nSoftware, so that this Module and the Software run in separate address\nspaces, with one calling the other when they are run.\n\nInternal Module: means any or all Module, connected to the Software so\nthat they both execute in the same address space.\n\nGNU GPL: means the GNU General Public License version 2 or any\nsubsequent version, as published by the Free Software Foundation Inc.\n\nGNU Affero GPL: means the GNU Affero General Public License version 3 or\nany subsequent version, as published by the Free Software Foundation Inc.\n\nEUPL: means the European Union Public License version 1.1 or any\nsubsequent version, as published by the European Commission.\n\nParties: mean both the Licensee and the Licensor.\n\nThese expressions may be used both in singular and plural form.\n\n\n    Article 2 - PURPOSE\n\nThe purpose of the Agreement is the grant by the Licensor to the\nLicensee of a non-exclusive, transferable and worldwide license for the\nSoftware as set forth in Article 5 <#scope> hereinafter for the whole\nterm of the protection granted by the rights over said Software.\n\n\n    Article 3 - ACCEPTANCE\n\n3.1 The Licensee shall be deemed as having accepted the terms and\nconditions of this Agreement upon the occurrence of the first of the\nfollowing events:\n\n  * (i) loading the Software by any or all means, notably, by\n    downloading from a remote server, or by loading from a physical medium;\n  * (ii) the first time the Licensee exercises any of the rights granted\n    hereunder.\n\n3.2 One copy of the Agreement, containing a notice relating to the\ncharacteristics of the Software, to the limited warranty, and to the\nfact that its use is restricted to experienced users has been provided\nto the Licensee prior to its acceptance as set forth in Article 3.1\n<#accepting> hereinabove, and the Licensee hereby acknowledges that it\nhas read and understood it.\n\n\n    Article 4 - EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM\n\n\n      4.1 EFFECTIVE DATE\n\nThe Agreement shall become effective on the date when it is accepted by\nthe Licensee as set forth in Article 3.1 <#accepting>.\n\n\n      4.2 TERM\n\nThe Agreement shall remain in force for the entire legal term of\nprotection of the economic rights over the Software.\n\n\n    Article 5 - SCOPE OF RIGHTS GRANTED\n\nThe Licensor hereby grants to the Licensee, who accepts, the following\nrights over the Software for any or all use, and for the term of the\nAgreement, on the basis of the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter.\n\nBesides, if the Licensor owns or comes to own one or more patents\nprotecting all or part of the functions of the Software or of its\ncomponents, the Licensor undertakes not to enforce the rights granted by\nthese patents against successive Licensees using, exploiting or\nmodifying the Software. If these patents are transferred, the Licensor\nundertakes to have the transferees subscribe to the obligations set\nforth in this paragraph.\n\n\n      5.1 RIGHT OF USE\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to use the Software, without any limitation\nas to its fields of application, with it being hereinafter specified\nthat this comprises:\n\n 1. permanent or temporary reproduction of all or part of the Software\n    by any or all means and in any or all form.\n\n 2. loading, displaying, running, or storing the Software on any or all\n    medium.\n\n 3. entitlement to observe, study or test its operation so as to\n    determine the ideas and principles behind any or all constituent\n    elements of said Software. This shall apply when the Licensee\n    carries out any or all loading, displaying, running, transmission or\n    storage operation as regards the Software, that it is entitled to\n    carry out hereunder.\n\n\n      5.2 ENTITLEMENT TO MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS\n\nThe right to make Contributions includes the right to translate, adapt,\narrange, or make any or all modifications to the Software, and the right\nto reproduce the resulting software.\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to make any or all Contributions to the\nSoftware provided that it includes an explicit notice that it is the\nauthor of said Contribution and indicates the date of the creation thereof.\n\n\n      5.3 RIGHT OF DISTRIBUTION\n\nIn particular, the right of distribution includes the right to publish,\ntransmit and communicate the Software to the general public on any or\nall medium, and by any or all means, and the right to market, either in\nconsideration of a fee, or free of charge, one or more copies of the\nSoftware by any means.\n\nThe Licensee is further authorized to distribute copies of the modified\nor unmodified Software to third parties according to the terms and\nconditions set forth hereinafter.\n\n\n        5.3.1 DISTRIBUTION OF SOFTWARE WITHOUT MODIFICATION\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to distribute true copies of the Software in\nSource Code or Object Code form, provided that said distribution\ncomplies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:\n\n 1. a copy of the Agreement,\n\n 2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty\n    and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,\n\nand that, in the event that only the Object Code of the Software is\nredistributed, the Licensee allows effective access to the full Source\nCode of the Software for a period of at least three years from the\ndistribution of the Software, it being understood that the additional\nacquisition cost of the Source Code shall not exceed the cost of the\ndata transfer.\n\n\n        5.3.2 DISTRIBUTION OF MODIFIED SOFTWARE\n\nWhen the Licensee makes a Contribution to the Software, the terms and\nconditions for the distribution of the resulting Modified Software\nbecome subject to all the provisions of this Agreement.\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to distribute the Modified Software, in\nsource code or object code form, provided that said distribution\ncomplies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:\n\n 1. a copy of the Agreement,\n\n 2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty\n    and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,\n\nand, in the event that only the object code of the Modified Software is\nredistributed,\n\n 3. a note stating the conditions of effective access to the full source\n    code of the Modified Software for a period of at least three years\n    from the distribution of the Modified Software, it being understood\n    that the additional acquisition cost of the source code shall not\n    exceed the cost of the data transfer.\n\n\n        5.3.3 DISTRIBUTION OF EXTERNAL MODULES\n\nWhen the Licensee has developed an External Module, the terms and\nconditions of this Agreement do not apply to said External Module, that\nmay be distributed under a separate license agreement.\n\n\n        5.3.4 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER LICENSES\n\nThe Licensee can include a code that is subject to the provisions of one\nof the versions of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL in the\nModified or unmodified Software, and distribute that entire code under\nthe terms of the same version of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL.\n\nThe Licensee can include the Modified or unmodified Software in a code\nthat is subject to the provisions of one of the versions of the GNU GPL,\nGNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL and distribute that entire code under the\nterms of the same version of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL.\n\n\n    Article 6 - INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY\n\n\n      6.1 OVER THE INITIAL SOFTWARE\n\nThe Holder owns the economic rights over the Initial Software. Any or\nall use of the Initial Software is subject to compliance with the terms\nand conditions under which the Holder has elected to distribute its work\nand no one shall be entitled to modify the terms and conditions for the\ndistribution of said Initial Software.\n\nThe Holder undertakes that the Initial Software will remain ruled at\nleast by this Agreement, for the duration set forth in Article 4.2 <#term>.\n\n\n      6.2 OVER THE CONTRIBUTIONS\n\nThe Licensee who develops a Contribution is the owner of the\nintellectual property rights over this Contribution as defined by\napplicable law.\n\n\n      6.3 OVER THE EXTERNAL MODULES\n\nThe Licensee who develops an External Module is the owner of the\nintellectual property rights over this External Module as defined by\napplicable law and is free to choose the type of agreement that shall\ngovern its distribution.\n\n\n      6.4 JOINT PROVISIONS\n\nThe Licensee expressly undertakes:\n\n 1. not to remove, or modify, in any manner, the intellectual property\n    notices attached to the Software;\n\n 2. to reproduce said notices, in an identical manner, in the copies of\n    the Software modified or not.\n\nThe Licensee undertakes not to directly or indirectly infringe the\nintellectual property rights on the Software of the Holder and/or\nContributors, and to take, where applicable, vis-ÃÂ -vis its staff, any\nand all measures required to ensure respect of said intellectual\nproperty rights of the Holder and/or Contributors.\n\n\n    Article 7 - RELATED SERVICES\n\n7.1 Under no circumstances shall the Agreement oblige the Licensor to\nprovide technical assistance or maintenance services for the Software.\n\nHowever, the Licensor is entitled to offer this type of services. The\nterms and conditions of such technical assistance, and/or such\nmaintenance, shall be set forth in a separate instrument. Only the\nLicensor offering said maintenance and/or technical assistance services\nshall incur liability therefor.\n\n7.2 Similarly, any Licensor is entitled to offer to its licensees, under\nits sole responsibility, a warranty, that shall only be binding upon\nitself, for the redistribution of the Software and/or the Modified\nSoftware, under terms and conditions that it is free to decide. Said\nwarranty, and the financial terms and conditions of its application,\nshall be subject of a separate instrument executed between the Licensor\nand the Licensee.\n\n\n    Article 8 - LIABILITY\n\n8.1 Subject to the provisions of Article 8.2, the Licensee shall be\nentitled to claim compensation for any direct loss it may have suffered\nfrom the Software as a result of a fault on the part of the relevant\nLicensor, subject to providing evidence thereof.\n\n8.2 The Licensor's liability is limited to the commitments made under\nthis Agreement and shall not be incurred as a result of in particular:\n(i) loss due the Licensee's total or partial failure to fulfill its\nobligations, (ii) direct or consequential loss that is suffered by the\nLicensee due to the use or performance of the Software, and (iii) more\ngenerally, any consequential loss. In particular the Parties expressly\nagree that any or all pecuniary or business loss (i.e. loss of data,\nloss of profits, operating loss, loss of customers or orders,\nopportunity cost, any disturbance to business activities) or any or all\nlegal proceedings instituted against the Licensee by a third party,\nshall constitute consequential loss and shall not provide entitlement to\nany or all compensation from the Licensor.\n\n\n    Article 9 - WARRANTY\n\n9.1 The Licensee acknowledges that the scientific and technical\nstate-of-the-art when the Software was distributed did not enable all\npossible uses to be tested and verified, nor for the presence of\npossible defects to be detected. In this respect, the Licensee's\nattention has been drawn to the risks associated with loading, using,\nmodifying and/or developing and reproducing the Software which are\nreserved for experienced users.\n\nThe Licensee shall be responsible for verifying, by any or all means,\nthe suitability of the product for its requirements, its good working\norder, and for ensuring that it shall not cause damage to either persons\nor properties.\n\n9.2 The Licensor hereby represents, in good faith, that it is entitled\nto grant all the rights over the Software (including in particular the\nrights set forth in Article 5 <#scope>).\n\n9.3 The Licensee acknowledges that the Software is supplied \"as is\" by\nthe Licensor without any other express or tacit warranty, other than\nthat provided for in Article 9.2 <#good-faith> and, in particular,\nwithout any warranty as to its commercial value, its secured, safe,\ninnovative or relevant nature.\n\nSpecifically, the Licensor does not warrant that the Software is free\nfrom any error, that it will operate without interruption, that it will\nbe compatible with the Licensee's own equipment and software\nconfiguration, nor that it will meet the Licensee's requirements.\n\n9.4 The Licensor does not either expressly or tacitly warrant that the\nSoftware does not infringe any third party intellectual property right\nrelating to a patent, software or any other property right. Therefore,\nthe Licensor disclaims any and all liability towards the Licensee\narising out of any or all proceedings for infringement that may be\ninstituted in respect of the use, modification and redistribution of the\nSoftware. Nevertheless, should such proceedings be instituted against\nthe Licensee, the Licensor shall provide it with technical and legal\nexpertise for its defense. Such technical and legal expertise shall be\ndecided on a case-by-case basis between the relevant Licensor and the\nLicensee pursuant to a memorandum of understanding. The Licensor\ndisclaims any and all liability as regards the Licensee's use of the\nname of the Software. No warranty is given as regards the existence of\nprior rights over the name of the Software or as regards the existence\nof a trademark.\n\n\n    Article 10 - TERMINATION\n\n10.1 In the event of a breach by the Licensee of its obligations\nhereunder, the Licensor may automatically terminate this Agreement\nthirty (30) days after notice has been sent to the Licensee and has\nremained ineffective.\n\n10.2 A Licensee whose Agreement is terminated shall no longer be\nauthorized to use, modify or distribute the Software. However, any\nlicenses that it may have granted prior to termination of the Agreement\nshall remain valid subject to their having been granted in compliance\nwith the terms and conditions hereof.\n\n\n    Article 11 - MISCELLANEOUS\n\n\n      11.1 EXCUSABLE EVENTS\n\nNeither Party shall be liable for any or all delay, or failure to\nperform the Agreement, that may be attributable to an event of force\nmajeure, an act of God or an outside cause, such as defective\nfunctioning or interruptions of the electricity or telecommunications\nnetworks, network paralysis following a virus attack, intervention by\ngovernment authorities, natural disasters, water damage, earthquakes,\nfire, explosions, strikes and labor unrest, war, etc.\n\n11.2 Any failure by either Party, on one or more occasions, to invoke\none or more of the provisions hereof, shall under no circumstances be\ninterpreted as being a waiver by the interested Party of its right to\ninvoke said provision(s) subsequently.\n\n11.3 The Agreement cancels and replaces any or all previous agreements,\nwhether written or oral, between the Parties and having the same\npurpose, and constitutes the entirety of the agreement between said\nParties concerning said purpose. No supplement or modification to the\nterms and conditions hereof shall be effective as between the Parties\nunless it is made in writing and signed by their duly authorized\nrepresentatives.\n\n11.4 In the event that one or more of the provisions hereof were to\nconflict with a current or future applicable act or legislative text,\nsaid act or legislative text shall prevail, and the Parties shall make\nthe necessary amendments so as to comply with said act or legislative\ntext. All other provisions shall remain effective. Similarly, invalidity\nof a provision of the Agreement, for any reason whatsoever, shall not\ncause the Agreement as a whole to be invalid.\n\n\n      11.5 LANGUAGE\n\nThe Agreement is drafted in both French and English and both versions\nare deemed authentic.\n\n\n    Article 12 - NEW VERSIONS OF THE AGREEMENT\n\n12.1 Any person is authorized to duplicate and distribute copies of this\nAgreement.\n\n12.2 So as to ensure coherence, the wording of this Agreement is\nprotected and may only be modified by the authors of the License, who\nreserve the right to periodically publish updates or new versions of the\nAgreement, each with a separate number. These subsequent versions may\naddress new issues encountered by Free Software.\n\n12.3 Any Software distributed under a given version of the Agreement may\nonly be subsequently distributed under the same version of the Agreement\nor a subsequent version, subject to the provisions of Article 5.3.4\n<#compatibility>.\n\n\n    Article 13 - GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION\n\n13.1 The Agreement is governed by French law. The Parties agree to\nendeavor to seek an amicable solution to any disagreements or disputes\nthat may arise during the performance of the Agreement.\n\n13.2 Failing an amicable solution within two (2) months as from their\noccurrence, and unless emergency proceedings are necessary, the\ndisagreements or disputes shall be referred to the Paris Courts having\njurisdiction, by the more diligent Party.\n",
            "category": "Copyleft Limited",
            "osiUrl": "http://opensource.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1",
            "owner": "CeCILL",
            "_sourceURL": "https://github.com/nexB/scancode-toolkit/blob/develop/src/licensedcode/data/licenses/cecill-2.1.yml",
            "key": "cecill-2.1",
            "name": "CeCILL Free Software License Agreement v2.1",
            "spdxId": "CECILL-2.1",
            "notes": null,
            "_implications": {
                "__impliedNames": [
                    "scancode://cecill-2.1",
                    "CeCILL 2.1",
                    "CECILL-2.1"
                ],
                "__impliedId": "CECILL-2.1",
                "__impliedCopyleft": [
                    [
                        "Scancode",
                        "WeakCopyleft"
                    ]
                ],
                "__calculatedCopyleft": "WeakCopyleft",
                "__impliedText": "  CeCILL FREE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT\n\nVersion 2.1 dated 2013-06-21\n\n\n    Notice\n\nThis Agreement is a Free Software license agreement that is the result\nof discussions between its authors in order to ensure compliance with\nthe two main principles guiding its drafting:\n\n  * firstly, compliance with the principles governing the distribution\n    of Free Software: access to source code, broad rights granted to users,\n  * secondly, the election of a governing law, French law, with which it\n    is conformant, both as regards the law of torts and intellectual\n    property law, and the protection that it offers to both authors and\n    holders of the economic rights over software.\n\nThe authors of the CeCILL (for Ce[a] C[nrs] I[nria] L[ogiciel] L[ibre]) \nlicense are: \n\nCommissariat Ã  l'Ã©nergie atomique et aux Ã©nergies alternatives - CEA, a\npublic scientific, technical and industrial research establishment,\nhaving its principal place of business at 25 rue Leblanc, immeuble Le\nPonant D, 75015 Paris, France.\n\nCentre National de la Recherche Scientifique - CNRS, a public scientific\nand technological establishment, having its principal place of business\nat 3 rue Michel-Ange, 75794 Paris cedex 16, France.\n\nInstitut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique -\nInria, a public scientific and technological establishment, having its\nprincipal place of business at Domaine de Voluceau, Rocquencourt, BP\n105, 78153 Le Chesnay cedex, France.\n\n\n    Preamble\n\nThe purpose of this Free Software license agreement is to grant users\nthe right to modify and redistribute the software governed by this\nlicense within the framework of an open source distribution model.\n\nThe exercising of this right is conditional upon certain obligations for\nusers so as to preserve this status for all subsequent redistributions.\n\nIn consideration of access to the source code and the rights to copy,\nmodify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only\nwith a limited warranty and the software's author, the holder of the\neconomic rights, and the successive licensors only have limited liability.\n\nIn this respect, the risks associated with loading, using, modifying\nand/or developing or reproducing the software by the user are brought to\nthe user's attention, given its Free Software status, which may make it\ncomplicated to use, with the result that its use is reserved for\ndevelopers and experienced professionals having in-depth computer\nknowledge. Users are therefore encouraged to load and test the\nsuitability of the software as regards their requirements in conditions\nenabling the security of their systems and/or data to be ensured and,\nmore generally, to use and operate it in the same conditions of\nsecurity. This Agreement may be freely reproduced and published,\nprovided it is not altered, and that no provisions are either added or\nremoved herefrom.\n\nThis Agreement may apply to any or all software for which the holder of\nthe economic rights decides to submit the use thereof to its provisions.\n\nFrequently asked questions can be found on the official website of the\nCeCILL licenses family (http://www.cecill.info/index.en.html) for any \nnecessary clarification.\n\n\n    Article 1 - DEFINITIONS\n\nFor the purpose of this Agreement, when the following expressions\ncommence with a capital letter, they shall have the following meaning:\n\nAgreement: means this license agreement, and its possible subsequent\nversions and annexes.\n\nSoftware: means the software in its Object Code and/or Source Code form\nand, where applicable, its documentation, \"as is\" when the Licensee\naccepts the Agreement.\n\nInitial Software: means the Software in its Source Code and possibly its\nObject Code form and, where applicable, its documentation, \"as is\" when\nit is first distributed under the terms and conditions of the Agreement.\n\nModified Software: means the Software modified by at least one\nContribution.\n\nSource Code: means all the Software's instructions and program lines to\nwhich access is required so as to modify the Software.\n\nObject Code: means the binary files originating from the compilation of\nthe Source Code.\n\nHolder: means the holder(s) of the economic rights over the Initial\nSoftware.\n\nLicensee: means the Software user(s) having accepted the Agreement.\n\nContributor: means a Licensee having made at least one Contribution.\n\nLicensor: means the Holder, or any other individual or legal entity, who\ndistributes the Software under the Agreement.\n\nContribution: means any or all modifications, corrections, translations,\nadaptations and/or new functions integrated into the Software by any or\nall Contributors, as well as any or all Internal Modules.\n\nModule: means a set of sources files including their documentation that\nenables supplementary functions or services in addition to those offered\nby the Software.\n\nExternal Module: means any or all Modules, not derived from the\nSoftware, so that this Module and the Software run in separate address\nspaces, with one calling the other when they are run.\n\nInternal Module: means any or all Module, connected to the Software so\nthat they both execute in the same address space.\n\nGNU GPL: means the GNU General Public License version 2 or any\nsubsequent version, as published by the Free Software Foundation Inc.\n\nGNU Affero GPL: means the GNU Affero General Public License version 3 or\nany subsequent version, as published by the Free Software Foundation Inc.\n\nEUPL: means the European Union Public License version 1.1 or any\nsubsequent version, as published by the European Commission.\n\nParties: mean both the Licensee and the Licensor.\n\nThese expressions may be used both in singular and plural form.\n\n\n    Article 2 - PURPOSE\n\nThe purpose of the Agreement is the grant by the Licensor to the\nLicensee of a non-exclusive, transferable and worldwide license for the\nSoftware as set forth in Article 5 <#scope> hereinafter for the whole\nterm of the protection granted by the rights over said Software.\n\n\n    Article 3 - ACCEPTANCE\n\n3.1 The Licensee shall be deemed as having accepted the terms and\nconditions of this Agreement upon the occurrence of the first of the\nfollowing events:\n\n  * (i) loading the Software by any or all means, notably, by\n    downloading from a remote server, or by loading from a physical medium;\n  * (ii) the first time the Licensee exercises any of the rights granted\n    hereunder.\n\n3.2 One copy of the Agreement, containing a notice relating to the\ncharacteristics of the Software, to the limited warranty, and to the\nfact that its use is restricted to experienced users has been provided\nto the Licensee prior to its acceptance as set forth in Article 3.1\n<#accepting> hereinabove, and the Licensee hereby acknowledges that it\nhas read and understood it.\n\n\n    Article 4 - EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM\n\n\n      4.1 EFFECTIVE DATE\n\nThe Agreement shall become effective on the date when it is accepted by\nthe Licensee as set forth in Article 3.1 <#accepting>.\n\n\n      4.2 TERM\n\nThe Agreement shall remain in force for the entire legal term of\nprotection of the economic rights over the Software.\n\n\n    Article 5 - SCOPE OF RIGHTS GRANTED\n\nThe Licensor hereby grants to the Licensee, who accepts, the following\nrights over the Software for any or all use, and for the term of the\nAgreement, on the basis of the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter.\n\nBesides, if the Licensor owns or comes to own one or more patents\nprotecting all or part of the functions of the Software or of its\ncomponents, the Licensor undertakes not to enforce the rights granted by\nthese patents against successive Licensees using, exploiting or\nmodifying the Software. If these patents are transferred, the Licensor\nundertakes to have the transferees subscribe to the obligations set\nforth in this paragraph.\n\n\n      5.1 RIGHT OF USE\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to use the Software, without any limitation\nas to its fields of application, with it being hereinafter specified\nthat this comprises:\n\n 1. permanent or temporary reproduction of all or part of the Software\n    by any or all means and in any or all form.\n\n 2. loading, displaying, running, or storing the Software on any or all\n    medium.\n\n 3. entitlement to observe, study or test its operation so as to\n    determine the ideas and principles behind any or all constituent\n    elements of said Software. This shall apply when the Licensee\n    carries out any or all loading, displaying, running, transmission or\n    storage operation as regards the Software, that it is entitled to\n    carry out hereunder.\n\n\n      5.2 ENTITLEMENT TO MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS\n\nThe right to make Contributions includes the right to translate, adapt,\narrange, or make any or all modifications to the Software, and the right\nto reproduce the resulting software.\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to make any or all Contributions to the\nSoftware provided that it includes an explicit notice that it is the\nauthor of said Contribution and indicates the date of the creation thereof.\n\n\n      5.3 RIGHT OF DISTRIBUTION\n\nIn particular, the right of distribution includes the right to publish,\ntransmit and communicate the Software to the general public on any or\nall medium, and by any or all means, and the right to market, either in\nconsideration of a fee, or free of charge, one or more copies of the\nSoftware by any means.\n\nThe Licensee is further authorized to distribute copies of the modified\nor unmodified Software to third parties according to the terms and\nconditions set forth hereinafter.\n\n\n        5.3.1 DISTRIBUTION OF SOFTWARE WITHOUT MODIFICATION\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to distribute true copies of the Software in\nSource Code or Object Code form, provided that said distribution\ncomplies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:\n\n 1. a copy of the Agreement,\n\n 2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty\n    and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,\n\nand that, in the event that only the Object Code of the Software is\nredistributed, the Licensee allows effective access to the full Source\nCode of the Software for a period of at least three years from the\ndistribution of the Software, it being understood that the additional\nacquisition cost of the Source Code shall not exceed the cost of the\ndata transfer.\n\n\n        5.3.2 DISTRIBUTION OF MODIFIED SOFTWARE\n\nWhen the Licensee makes a Contribution to the Software, the terms and\nconditions for the distribution of the resulting Modified Software\nbecome subject to all the provisions of this Agreement.\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to distribute the Modified Software, in\nsource code or object code form, provided that said distribution\ncomplies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:\n\n 1. a copy of the Agreement,\n\n 2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty\n    and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,\n\nand, in the event that only the object code of the Modified Software is\nredistributed,\n\n 3. a note stating the conditions of effective access to the full source\n    code of the Modified Software for a period of at least three years\n    from the distribution of the Modified Software, it being understood\n    that the additional acquisition cost of the source code shall not\n    exceed the cost of the data transfer.\n\n\n        5.3.3 DISTRIBUTION OF EXTERNAL MODULES\n\nWhen the Licensee has developed an External Module, the terms and\nconditions of this Agreement do not apply to said External Module, that\nmay be distributed under a separate license agreement.\n\n\n        5.3.4 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER LICENSES\n\nThe Licensee can include a code that is subject to the provisions of one\nof the versions of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL in the\nModified or unmodified Software, and distribute that entire code under\nthe terms of the same version of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL.\n\nThe Licensee can include the Modified or unmodified Software in a code\nthat is subject to the provisions of one of the versions of the GNU GPL,\nGNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL and distribute that entire code under the\nterms of the same version of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL.\n\n\n    Article 6 - INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY\n\n\n      6.1 OVER THE INITIAL SOFTWARE\n\nThe Holder owns the economic rights over the Initial Software. Any or\nall use of the Initial Software is subject to compliance with the terms\nand conditions under which the Holder has elected to distribute its work\nand no one shall be entitled to modify the terms and conditions for the\ndistribution of said Initial Software.\n\nThe Holder undertakes that the Initial Software will remain ruled at\nleast by this Agreement, for the duration set forth in Article 4.2 <#term>.\n\n\n      6.2 OVER THE CONTRIBUTIONS\n\nThe Licensee who develops a Contribution is the owner of the\nintellectual property rights over this Contribution as defined by\napplicable law.\n\n\n      6.3 OVER THE EXTERNAL MODULES\n\nThe Licensee who develops an External Module is the owner of the\nintellectual property rights over this External Module as defined by\napplicable law and is free to choose the type of agreement that shall\ngovern its distribution.\n\n\n      6.4 JOINT PROVISIONS\n\nThe Licensee expressly undertakes:\n\n 1. not to remove, or modify, in any manner, the intellectual property\n    notices attached to the Software;\n\n 2. to reproduce said notices, in an identical manner, in the copies of\n    the Software modified or not.\n\nThe Licensee undertakes not to directly or indirectly infringe the\nintellectual property rights on the Software of the Holder and/or\nContributors, and to take, where applicable, vis-Ã -vis its staff, any\nand all measures required to ensure respect of said intellectual\nproperty rights of the Holder and/or Contributors.\n\n\n    Article 7 - RELATED SERVICES\n\n7.1 Under no circumstances shall the Agreement oblige the Licensor to\nprovide technical assistance or maintenance services for the Software.\n\nHowever, the Licensor is entitled to offer this type of services. The\nterms and conditions of such technical assistance, and/or such\nmaintenance, shall be set forth in a separate instrument. Only the\nLicensor offering said maintenance and/or technical assistance services\nshall incur liability therefor.\n\n7.2 Similarly, any Licensor is entitled to offer to its licensees, under\nits sole responsibility, a warranty, that shall only be binding upon\nitself, for the redistribution of the Software and/or the Modified\nSoftware, under terms and conditions that it is free to decide. Said\nwarranty, and the financial terms and conditions of its application,\nshall be subject of a separate instrument executed between the Licensor\nand the Licensee.\n\n\n    Article 8 - LIABILITY\n\n8.1 Subject to the provisions of Article 8.2, the Licensee shall be\nentitled to claim compensation for any direct loss it may have suffered\nfrom the Software as a result of a fault on the part of the relevant\nLicensor, subject to providing evidence thereof.\n\n8.2 The Licensor's liability is limited to the commitments made under\nthis Agreement and shall not be incurred as a result of in particular:\n(i) loss due the Licensee's total or partial failure to fulfill its\nobligations, (ii) direct or consequential loss that is suffered by the\nLicensee due to the use or performance of the Software, and (iii) more\ngenerally, any consequential loss. In particular the Parties expressly\nagree that any or all pecuniary or business loss (i.e. loss of data,\nloss of profits, operating loss, loss of customers or orders,\nopportunity cost, any disturbance to business activities) or any or all\nlegal proceedings instituted against the Licensee by a third party,\nshall constitute consequential loss and shall not provide entitlement to\nany or all compensation from the Licensor.\n\n\n    Article 9 - WARRANTY\n\n9.1 The Licensee acknowledges that the scientific and technical\nstate-of-the-art when the Software was distributed did not enable all\npossible uses to be tested and verified, nor for the presence of\npossible defects to be detected. In this respect, the Licensee's\nattention has been drawn to the risks associated with loading, using,\nmodifying and/or developing and reproducing the Software which are\nreserved for experienced users.\n\nThe Licensee shall be responsible for verifying, by any or all means,\nthe suitability of the product for its requirements, its good working\norder, and for ensuring that it shall not cause damage to either persons\nor properties.\n\n9.2 The Licensor hereby represents, in good faith, that it is entitled\nto grant all the rights over the Software (including in particular the\nrights set forth in Article 5 <#scope>).\n\n9.3 The Licensee acknowledges that the Software is supplied \"as is\" by\nthe Licensor without any other express or tacit warranty, other than\nthat provided for in Article 9.2 <#good-faith> and, in particular,\nwithout any warranty as to its commercial value, its secured, safe,\ninnovative or relevant nature.\n\nSpecifically, the Licensor does not warrant that the Software is free\nfrom any error, that it will operate without interruption, that it will\nbe compatible with the Licensee's own equipment and software\nconfiguration, nor that it will meet the Licensee's requirements.\n\n9.4 The Licensor does not either expressly or tacitly warrant that the\nSoftware does not infringe any third party intellectual property right\nrelating to a patent, software or any other property right. Therefore,\nthe Licensor disclaims any and all liability towards the Licensee\narising out of any or all proceedings for infringement that may be\ninstituted in respect of the use, modification and redistribution of the\nSoftware. Nevertheless, should such proceedings be instituted against\nthe Licensee, the Licensor shall provide it with technical and legal\nexpertise for its defense. Such technical and legal expertise shall be\ndecided on a case-by-case basis between the relevant Licensor and the\nLicensee pursuant to a memorandum of understanding. The Licensor\ndisclaims any and all liability as regards the Licensee's use of the\nname of the Software. No warranty is given as regards the existence of\nprior rights over the name of the Software or as regards the existence\nof a trademark.\n\n\n    Article 10 - TERMINATION\n\n10.1 In the event of a breach by the Licensee of its obligations\nhereunder, the Licensor may automatically terminate this Agreement\nthirty (30) days after notice has been sent to the Licensee and has\nremained ineffective.\n\n10.2 A Licensee whose Agreement is terminated shall no longer be\nauthorized to use, modify or distribute the Software. However, any\nlicenses that it may have granted prior to termination of the Agreement\nshall remain valid subject to their having been granted in compliance\nwith the terms and conditions hereof.\n\n\n    Article 11 - MISCELLANEOUS\n\n\n      11.1 EXCUSABLE EVENTS\n\nNeither Party shall be liable for any or all delay, or failure to\nperform the Agreement, that may be attributable to an event of force\nmajeure, an act of God or an outside cause, such as defective\nfunctioning or interruptions of the electricity or telecommunications\nnetworks, network paralysis following a virus attack, intervention by\ngovernment authorities, natural disasters, water damage, earthquakes,\nfire, explosions, strikes and labor unrest, war, etc.\n\n11.2 Any failure by either Party, on one or more occasions, to invoke\none or more of the provisions hereof, shall under no circumstances be\ninterpreted as being a waiver by the interested Party of its right to\ninvoke said provision(s) subsequently.\n\n11.3 The Agreement cancels and replaces any or all previous agreements,\nwhether written or oral, between the Parties and having the same\npurpose, and constitutes the entirety of the agreement between said\nParties concerning said purpose. No supplement or modification to the\nterms and conditions hereof shall be effective as between the Parties\nunless it is made in writing and signed by their duly authorized\nrepresentatives.\n\n11.4 In the event that one or more of the provisions hereof were to\nconflict with a current or future applicable act or legislative text,\nsaid act or legislative text shall prevail, and the Parties shall make\nthe necessary amendments so as to comply with said act or legislative\ntext. All other provisions shall remain effective. Similarly, invalidity\nof a provision of the Agreement, for any reason whatsoever, shall not\ncause the Agreement as a whole to be invalid.\n\n\n      11.5 LANGUAGE\n\nThe Agreement is drafted in both French and English and both versions\nare deemed authentic.\n\n\n    Article 12 - NEW VERSIONS OF THE AGREEMENT\n\n12.1 Any person is authorized to duplicate and distribute copies of this\nAgreement.\n\n12.2 So as to ensure coherence, the wording of this Agreement is\nprotected and may only be modified by the authors of the License, who\nreserve the right to periodically publish updates or new versions of the\nAgreement, each with a separate number. These subsequent versions may\naddress new issues encountered by Free Software.\n\n12.3 Any Software distributed under a given version of the Agreement may\nonly be subsequently distributed under the same version of the Agreement\nor a subsequent version, subject to the provisions of Article 5.3.4\n<#compatibility>.\n\n\n    Article 13 - GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION\n\n13.1 The Agreement is governed by French law. The Parties agree to\nendeavor to seek an amicable solution to any disagreements or disputes\nthat may arise during the performance of the Agreement.\n\n13.2 Failing an amicable solution within two (2) months as from their\noccurrence, and unless emergency proceedings are necessary, the\ndisagreements or disputes shall be referred to the Paris Courts having\njurisdiction, by the more diligent Party.\n",
                "__impliedURLs": [
                    [
                        "Homepage",
                        "http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-fr.html"
                    ],
                    [
                        "OSI Page",
                        "http://opensource.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1"
                    ],
                    [
                        null,
                        "http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-en.html"
                    ]
                ]
            }
        },
        "HansHammel license-compatibility-checker": {
            "implications": {
                "__impliedNames": [
                    "CECILL-2.1"
                ],
                "__impliedCopyleft": [
                    [
                        "HansHammel license-compatibility-checker",
                        "NoCopyleft"
                    ]
                ],
                "__calculatedCopyleft": "NoCopyleft"
            },
            "licensename": "CECILL-2.1",
            "copyleftkind": "NoCopyleft"
        },
        "OpenChainPolicyTemplate": {
            "isSaaSDeemed": "no",
            "licenseType": "copyleft",
            "freedomOrDeath": "yes",
            "typeCopyleft": "strong",
            "_sourceURL": "https://github.com/OpenChain-Project/curriculum/raw/ddf1e879341adbd9b297cd67c5d5c16b2076540b/policy-template/Open%20Source%20Policy%20Template%20for%20OpenChain%20Specification%201.2.ods",
            "name": "CeCILL License 2.1",
            "commercialUse": true,
            "spdxId": "CECILL-2.1",
            "_implications": {
                "__impliedNames": [
                    "CECILL-2.1"
                ]
            }
        },
        "OpenSourceInitiative": {
            "text": [
                {
                    "url": "https://opensource.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1",
                    "title": "HTML",
                    "media_type": "text/html"
                }
            ],
            "identifiers": [
                {
                    "identifier": "License :: OSI Approved :: CEA CNRS Inria Logiciel Libre License, version 2.1 (CeCILL-2.1)",
                    "scheme": "Trove"
                }
            ],
            "superseded_by": null,
            "_sourceURL": "https://opensource.org/licenses/",
            "name": "Cea Cnrs Inria Logiciel Libre License, Version 2.1",
            "other_names": [],
            "keywords": [
                "osi-approved"
            ],
            "id": "CECILL-2.1",
            "links": [
                {
                    "note": "OSI Page",
                    "url": "https://opensource.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1"
                }
            ],
            "_implications": {
                "__impliedNames": [
                    "CECILL-2.1",
                    "Cea Cnrs Inria Logiciel Libre License, Version 2.1",
                    "License :: OSI Approved :: CEA CNRS Inria Logiciel Libre License, version 2.1 (CeCILL-2.1)"
                ],
                "__impliedURLs": [
                    [
                        "OSI Page",
                        "https://opensource.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1"
                    ]
                ]
            }
        },
        "Wikipedia": {
            "Distribution": {
                "value": "Permissive",
                "description": "distribution of the code to third parties"
            },
            "Sublicensing": {
                "value": "With restrictions",
                "description": "whether modified code may be licensed under a different license (for example a copyright) or must retain the same license under which it was provided"
            },
            "Linking": {
                "value": "Permissive",
                "description": "linking of the licensed code with code licensed under a different license (e.g. when the code is provided as a library)"
            },
            "Publication date": "June 21, 2013",
            "Coordinates": {
                "name": "CeCILL",
                "version": "2.1",
                "spdxId": "CeCILL-2.1"
            },
            "_sourceURL": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_free_and_open-source_software_licenses",
            "Patent grant": {
                "value": "No",
                "description": "protection of licensees from patent claims made by code contributors regarding their contribution, and protection of contributors from patent claims made by licensees"
            },
            "Trademark grant": {
                "value": "No",
                "description": "use of trademarks associated with the licensed code or its contributors by a licensee"
            },
            "_implications": {
                "__impliedNames": [
                    "CeCILL-2.1",
                    "CeCILL 2.1"
                ],
                "__hasPatentHint": false
            },
            "Private use": {
                "value": "Permissive",
                "description": "whether modification to the code must be shared with the community or may be used privately (e.g. internal use by a corporation)"
            },
            "Modification": {
                "value": "Permissive",
                "description": "modification of the code by a licensee"
            }
        },
        "choosealicense.com": {
            "limitations": [
                "liability",
                "warranty"
            ],
            "_sourceURL": "https://github.com/github/choosealicense.com/blob/gh-pages/_licenses/cecill-2.1.txt",
            "content": "---\ntitle: CeCILL Free Software License Agreement v2.1\nspdx-id: CECILL-2.1\n\ndescription: Strong copyleft license made by three French public research organisations, CEA, CNRS, and Inria, compatible with AGPL-3.0, EUPL-1.1, and GPL-2.0, or later versions of those licenses.\n\nhow: Create a text file (typically named LICENSE or LICENCE) in the root of your source code and copy the text of the license into the file.\n\nusing:\n  BMC-Tools: https://github.com/ANSSI-FR/bmc-tools/blob/master/LICENCE.txt\n  Taxe fonciÃÂ¨re: https://github.com/etalab/taxe-fonciere/blob/master/LICENSE\n  VITAM: https://github.com/ProgrammeVitam/vitam/blob/master_0.15.x/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-fr.txt\n\npermissions:\n  - commercial-use\n  - modifications\n  - distribution\n  - private-use\n  - patent-use\n\nconditions:\n  - include-copyright\n  - disclose-source\n  - same-license\n\nlimitations:\n  - liability\n  - warranty\n\n---\n\n\n  CONTRAT DE LICENCE DE LOGICIEL LIBRE CeCILL\n\nVersion 2.1 du 2013-06-21\n\n\n    Avertissement\n\nCe contrat est une licence de logiciel libre issue d'une concertation\nentre ses auteurs afin que le respect de deux grands principes prÃÂ©side ÃÂ \nsa rÃÂ©daction:\n\n  * d'une part, le respect des principes de diffusion des logiciels\n    libres: accÃÂ¨s au code source, droits ÃÂ©tendus confÃÂ©rÃÂ©s aux utilisateurs,\n  * d'autre part, la dÃÂ©signation d'un droit applicable, le droit\n    franÃÂ§ais, auquel elle est conforme, tant au regard du droit de la\n    responsabilitÃÂ© civile que du droit de la propriÃÂ©tÃÂ© intellectuelle et\n    de la protection qu'il offre aux auteurs et titulaires des droits\n    patrimoniaux sur un logiciel.\n\nLes auteurs de la licence CeCILL (Ce[a] C[nrs] I[nria] L[ogiciel] L[ibre])\nsont:\n\nCommissariat ÃÂ  l'ÃÂ©nergie atomique et aux ÃÂ©nergies alternatives - CEA,\nÃÂ©tablissement public de recherche ÃÂ  caractÃÂ¨re scientifique, technique et\nindustriel, dont le siÃÂ¨ge est situÃÂ© 25 rue Leblanc, immeuble Le Ponant\nD, 75015 Paris.\n\nCentre National de la Recherche Scientifique - CNRS, ÃÂ©tablissement\npublic ÃÂ  caractÃÂ¨re scientifique et technologique, dont le siÃÂ¨ge est\nsituÃÂ© 3 rue Michel-Ange, 75794 Paris cedex 16.\n\nInstitut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique -\nInria, ÃÂ©tablissement public ÃÂ  caractÃÂ¨re scientifique et technologique,\ndont le siÃÂ¨ge est situÃÂ© Domaine de Voluceau, Rocquencourt, BP 105, 78153\nLe Chesnay cedex.\n\n\n    PrÃÂ©ambule\n\nCe contrat est une licence de logiciel libre dont l'objectif est de\nconfÃÂ©rer aux utilisateurs la libertÃÂ© de modification et de\nredistribution du logiciel rÃÂ©gi par cette licence dans le cadre d'un\nmodÃÂ¨le de diffusion en logiciel libre.\n\nL'exercice de ces libertÃÂ©s est assorti de certains devoirs ÃÂ  la charge\ndes utilisateurs afin de prÃÂ©server ce statut au cours des\nredistributions ultÃÂ©rieures.\n\nL'accessibilitÃÂ© au code source et les droits de copie, de modification\net de redistribution qui en dÃÂ©coulent ont pour contrepartie de n'offrir\naux utilisateurs qu'une garantie limitÃÂ©e et de ne faire peser sur\nl'auteur du logiciel, le titulaire des droits patrimoniaux et les\nconcÃÂ©dants successifs qu'une responsabilitÃÂ© restreinte.\n\nA cet ÃÂ©gard l'attention de l'utilisateur est attirÃÂ©e sur les risques\nassociÃÂ©s au chargement, ÃÂ  l'utilisation, ÃÂ  la modification et/ou au\ndÃÂ©veloppement et ÃÂ  la reproduction du logiciel par l'utilisateur ÃÂ©tant\ndonnÃÂ© sa spÃÂ©cificitÃÂ© de logiciel libre, qui peut le rendre complexe ÃÂ \nmanipuler et qui le rÃÂ©serve donc ÃÂ  des dÃÂ©veloppeurs ou des\nprofessionnels avertis possÃÂ©dant des connaissances informatiques\napprofondies. Les utilisateurs sont donc invitÃÂ©s ÃÂ  charger et tester\nl'adÃÂ©quation du logiciel ÃÂ  leurs besoins dans des conditions permettant\nd'assurer la sÃÂ©curitÃÂ© de leurs systÃÂ¨mes et/ou de leurs donnÃÂ©es et, plus\ngÃÂ©nÃÂ©ralement, ÃÂ  l'utiliser et l'exploiter dans les mÃÂªmes conditions de\nsÃÂ©curitÃÂ©. Ce contrat peut ÃÂªtre reproduit et diffusÃÂ© librement, sous\nrÃÂ©serve de le conserver en l'ÃÂ©tat, sans ajout ni suppression de clauses.\n\nCe contrat est susceptible de s'appliquer ÃÂ  tout logiciel dont le\ntitulaire des droits patrimoniaux dÃÂ©cide de soumettre l'exploitation aux\ndispositions qu'il contient.\n\nUne liste de questions frÃÂ©quemment posÃÂ©es se trouve sur le site web\nofficiel de la famille des licences CeCILL\n(http://www.cecill.info/index.fr.html) pour toute clarification qui\nserait nÃÂ©cessaire.\n\n\n    Article 1 - DEFINITIONS\n\nDans ce contrat, les termes suivants, lorsqu'ils seront ÃÂ©crits avec une\nlettre capitale, auront la signification suivante:\n\nContrat: dÃÂ©signe le prÃÂ©sent contrat de licence, ses ÃÂ©ventuelles versions\npostÃÂ©rieures et annexes.\n\nLogiciel: dÃÂ©signe le logiciel sous sa forme de Code Objet et/ou de Code\nSource et le cas ÃÂ©chÃÂ©ant sa documentation, dans leur ÃÂ©tat au moment de\nl'acceptation du Contrat par le LicenciÃÂ©.\n\nLogiciel Initial: dÃÂ©signe le Logiciel sous sa forme de Code Source et\nÃÂ©ventuellement de Code Objet et le cas ÃÂ©chÃÂ©ant sa documentation, dans\nleur ÃÂ©tat au moment de leur premiÃÂ¨re diffusion sous les termes du Contrat.\n\nLogiciel ModifiÃÂ©: dÃÂ©signe le Logiciel modifiÃÂ© par au moins une\nContribution.\n\nCode Source: dÃÂ©signe l'ensemble des instructions et des lignes de\nprogramme du Logiciel et auquel l'accÃÂ¨s est nÃÂ©cessaire en vue de\nmodifier le Logiciel.\n\nCode Objet: dÃÂ©signe les fichiers binaires issus de la compilation du\nCode Source.\n\nTitulaire: dÃÂ©signe le ou les dÃÂ©tenteurs des droits patrimoniaux d'auteur\nsur le Logiciel Initial.\n\nLicenciÃÂ©: dÃÂ©signe le ou les utilisateurs du Logiciel ayant acceptÃÂ© le\nContrat.\n\nContributeur: dÃÂ©signe le LicenciÃÂ© auteur d'au moins une Contribution.\n\nConcÃÂ©dant: dÃÂ©signe le Titulaire ou toute personne physique ou morale\ndistribuant le Logiciel sous le Contrat.\n\nContribution: dÃÂ©signe l'ensemble des modifications, corrections,\ntraductions, adaptations et/ou nouvelles fonctionnalitÃÂ©s intÃÂ©grÃÂ©es dans\nle Logiciel par tout Contributeur, ainsi que tout Module Interne.\n\nModule: dÃÂ©signe un ensemble de fichiers sources y compris leur\ndocumentation qui permet de rÃÂ©aliser des fonctionnalitÃÂ©s ou services\nsupplÃÂ©mentaires ÃÂ  ceux fournis par le Logiciel.\n\nModule Externe: dÃÂ©signe tout Module, non dÃÂ©rivÃÂ© du Logiciel, tel que ce\nModule et le Logiciel s'exÃÂ©cutent dans des espaces d'adressage\ndiffÃÂ©rents, l'un appelant l'autre au moment de leur exÃÂ©cution.\n\nModule Interne: dÃÂ©signe tout Module liÃÂ© au Logiciel de telle sorte\nqu'ils s'exÃÂ©cutent dans le mÃÂªme espace d'adressage.\n\nGNU GPL: dÃÂ©signe la GNU General Public License dans sa version 2 ou\ntoute version ultÃÂ©rieure, telle que publiÃÂ©e par Free Software Foundation\nInc.\n\nGNU Affero GPL: dÃÂ©signe la GNU Affero General Public License dans sa\nversion 3 ou toute version ultÃÂ©rieure, telle que publiÃÂ©e par Free\nSoftware Foundation Inc.\n\nEUPL: dÃÂ©signe la Licence Publique de l'Union europÃÂ©enne dans sa version\n1.1 ou toute version ultÃÂ©rieure, telle que publiÃÂ©e par la Commission\nEuropÃÂ©enne.\n\nParties: dÃÂ©signe collectivement le LicenciÃÂ© et le ConcÃÂ©dant.\n\nCes termes s'entendent au singulier comme au pluriel.\n\n\n    Article 2 - OBJET\n\nLe Contrat a pour objet la concession par le ConcÃÂ©dant au LicenciÃÂ© d'une\nlicence non exclusive, cessible et mondiale du Logiciel telle que\ndÃÂ©finie ci-aprÃÂ¨s ÃÂ  l'article 5 <#etendue> pour toute la durÃÂ©e de\nprotection des droits portant sur ce Logiciel.\n\n\n    Article 3 - ACCEPTATION\n\n3.1 L'acceptation par le LicenciÃÂ© des termes du Contrat est rÃÂ©putÃÂ©e\nacquise du fait du premier des faits suivants:\n\n  * (i) le chargement du Logiciel par tout moyen notamment par\n    tÃÂ©lÃÂ©chargement ÃÂ  partir d'un serveur distant ou par chargement ÃÂ \n    partir d'un support physique;\n  * (ii) le premier exercice par le LicenciÃÂ© de l'un quelconque des\n    droits concÃÂ©dÃÂ©s par le Contrat.\n\n3.2 Un exemplaire du Contrat, contenant notamment un avertissement\nrelatif aux spÃÂ©cificitÃÂ©s du Logiciel, ÃÂ  la restriction de garantie et ÃÂ \nla limitation ÃÂ  un usage par des utilisateurs expÃÂ©rimentÃÂ©s a ÃÂ©tÃÂ© mis ÃÂ \ndisposition du LicenciÃÂ© prÃÂ©alablement ÃÂ  son acceptation telle que\ndÃÂ©finie ÃÂ  l'article 3.1 <#acceptation-acquise> ci dessus et le LicenciÃÂ©\nreconnaÃÂ®t en avoir pris connaissance.\n\n\n    Article 4 - ENTREE EN VIGUEUR ET DUREE\n\n\n      4.1 ENTREE EN VIGUEUR\n\nLe Contrat entre en vigueur ÃÂ  la date de son acceptation par le LicenciÃÂ©\ntelle que dÃÂ©finie en 3.1 <#acceptation-acquise>.\n\n\n      4.2 DUREE\n\nLe Contrat produira ses effets pendant toute la durÃÂ©e lÃÂ©gale de\nprotection des droits patrimoniaux portant sur le Logiciel.\n\n\n    Article 5 - ETENDUE DES DROITS CONCEDES\n\nLe ConcÃÂ©dant concÃÂ¨de au LicenciÃÂ©, qui accepte, les droits suivants sur\nle Logiciel pour toutes destinations et pour la durÃÂ©e du Contrat dans\nles conditions ci-aprÃÂ¨s dÃÂ©taillÃÂ©es.\n\nPar ailleurs, si le ConcÃÂ©dant dÃÂ©tient ou venait ÃÂ  dÃÂ©tenir un ou\nplusieurs brevets d'invention protÃÂ©geant tout ou partie des\nfonctionnalitÃÂ©s du Logiciel ou de ses composants, il s'engage ÃÂ  ne pas\nopposer les ÃÂ©ventuels droits confÃÂ©rÃÂ©s par ces brevets aux LicenciÃÂ©s\nsuccessifs qui utiliseraient, exploiteraient ou modifieraient le\nLogiciel. En cas de cession de ces brevets, le ConcÃÂ©dant s'engage ÃÂ \nfaire reprendre les obligations du prÃÂ©sent alinÃÂ©a aux cessionnaires.\n\n\n      5.1 DROIT D'UTILISATION\n\nLe LicenciÃÂ© est autorisÃÂ© ÃÂ  utiliser le Logiciel, sans restriction quant\naux domaines d'application, ÃÂ©tant ci-aprÃÂ¨s prÃÂ©cisÃÂ© que cela comporte:\n\n 1.\n\n    la reproduction permanente ou provisoire du Logiciel en tout ou\n    partie par tout moyen et sous toute forme.\n\n 2.\n\n    le chargement, l'affichage, l'exÃÂ©cution, ou le stockage du Logiciel\n    sur tout support.\n\n 3.\n\n    la possibilitÃÂ© d'en observer, d'en ÃÂ©tudier, ou d'en tester le\n    fonctionnement afin de dÃÂ©terminer les idÃÂ©es et principes qui sont ÃÂ \n    la base de n'importe quel ÃÂ©lÃÂ©ment de ce Logiciel; et ceci, lorsque\n    le LicenciÃÂ© effectue toute opÃÂ©ration de chargement, d'affichage,\n    d'exÃÂ©cution, de transmission ou de stockage du Logiciel qu'il est en\n    droit d'effectuer en vertu du Contrat.\n\n\n      5.2 DROIT D'APPORTER DES CONTRIBUTIONS\n\nLe droit d'apporter des Contributions comporte le droit de traduire,\nd'adapter, d'arranger ou d'apporter toute autre modification au Logiciel\net le droit de reproduire le logiciel en rÃÂ©sultant.\n\nLe LicenciÃÂ© est autorisÃÂ© ÃÂ  apporter toute Contribution au Logiciel sous\nrÃÂ©serve de mentionner, de faÃÂ§on explicite, son nom en tant qu'auteur de\ncette Contribution et la date de crÃÂ©ation de celle-ci.\n\n\n      5.3 DROIT DE DISTRIBUTION\n\nLe droit de distribution comporte notamment le droit de diffuser, de\ntransmettre et de communiquer le Logiciel au public sur tout support et\npar tout moyen ainsi que le droit de mettre sur le marchÃÂ© ÃÂ  titre\nonÃÂ©reux ou gratuit, un ou des exemplaires du Logiciel par tout procÃÂ©dÃÂ©.\n\nLe LicenciÃÂ© est autorisÃÂ© ÃÂ  distribuer des copies du Logiciel, modifiÃÂ© ou\nnon, ÃÂ  des tiers dans les conditions ci-aprÃÂ¨s dÃÂ©taillÃÂ©es.\n\n\n        5.3.1 DISTRIBUTION DU LOGICIEL SANS MODIFICATION\n\nLe LicenciÃÂ© est autorisÃÂ© ÃÂ  distribuer des copies conformes du Logiciel,\nsous forme de Code Source ou de Code Objet, ÃÂ  condition que cette\ndistribution respecte les dispositions du Contrat dans leur totalitÃÂ© et\nsoit accompagnÃÂ©e:\n\n 1.\n\n    d'un exemplaire du Contrat,\n\n 2.\n\n    d'un avertissement relatif ÃÂ  la restriction de garantie et de\n    responsabilitÃÂ© du ConcÃÂ©dant telle que prÃÂ©vue aux articles 8\n    <#responsabilite> et 9 <#garantie>,\n\net que, dans le cas oÃÂ¹ seul le Code Objet du Logiciel est redistribuÃÂ©,\nle LicenciÃÂ© permette un accÃÂ¨s effectif au Code Source complet du\nLogiciel pour une durÃÂ©e d'au moins 3 ans ÃÂ  compter de la distribution du\nlogiciel, ÃÂ©tant entendu que le coÃÂ»t additionnel d'acquisition du Code\nSource ne devra pas excÃÂ©der le simple coÃÂ»t de transfert des donnÃÂ©es.\n\n\n        5.3.2 DISTRIBUTION DU LOGICIEL MODIFIE\n\nLorsque le LicenciÃÂ© apporte une Contribution au Logiciel, les conditions\nde distribution du Logiciel ModifiÃÂ© en rÃÂ©sultant sont alors soumises ÃÂ \nl'intÃÂ©gralitÃÂ© des dispositions du Contrat.\n\nLe LicenciÃÂ© est autorisÃÂ© ÃÂ  distribuer le Logiciel ModifiÃÂ©, sous forme de\ncode source ou de code objet, ÃÂ  condition que cette distribution\nrespecte les dispositions du Contrat dans leur totalitÃÂ© et soit\naccompagnÃÂ©e:\n\n 1.\n\n    d'un exemplaire du Contrat,\n\n 2.\n\n    d'un avertissement relatif ÃÂ  la restriction de garantie et de\n    responsabilitÃÂ© du ConcÃÂ©dant telle que prÃÂ©vue aux articles 8\n    <#responsabilite> et 9 <#garantie>,\n\net, dans le cas oÃÂ¹ seul le code objet du Logiciel ModifiÃÂ© est redistribuÃÂ©,\n\n 3.\n\n    d'une note prÃÂ©cisant les conditions d'accÃÂ¨s effectif au code source\n    complet du Logiciel ModifiÃÂ©, pendant une pÃÂ©riode d'au moins 3 ans ÃÂ \n    compter de la distribution du Logiciel ModifiÃÂ©, ÃÂ©tant entendu que le\n    coÃÂ»t additionnel d'acquisition du code source ne devra pas excÃÂ©der\n    le simple coÃÂ»t de transfert des donnÃÂ©es.\n\n\n        5.3.3 DISTRIBUTION DES MODULES EXTERNES\n\nLorsque le LicenciÃÂ© a dÃÂ©veloppÃÂ© un Module Externe les conditions du\nContrat ne s'appliquent pas ÃÂ  ce Module Externe, qui peut ÃÂªtre distribuÃÂ©\nsous un contrat de licence diffÃÂ©rent.\n\n\n        5.3.4 COMPATIBILITE AVEC D'AUTRES LICENCES\n\nLe LicenciÃÂ© peut inclure un code soumis aux dispositions d'une des\nversions de la licence GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL et/ou EUPL dans le\nLogiciel modifiÃÂ© ou non et distribuer l'ensemble sous les conditions de\nla mÃÂªme version de la licence GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL et/ou EUPL.\n\nLe LicenciÃÂ© peut inclure le Logiciel modifiÃÂ© ou non dans un code soumis\naux dispositions d'une des versions de la licence GNU GPL, GNU Affero\nGPL et/ou EUPL et distribuer l'ensemble sous les conditions de la mÃÂªme\nversion de la licence GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL et/ou EUPL.\n\n\n    Article 6 - PROPRIETE INTELLECTUELLE\n\n\n      6.1 SUR LE LOGICIEL INITIAL\n\nLe Titulaire est dÃÂ©tenteur des droits patrimoniaux sur le Logiciel\nInitial. Toute utilisation du Logiciel Initial est soumise au respect\ndes conditions dans lesquelles le Titulaire a choisi de diffuser son\noeuvre et nul autre n'a la facultÃÂ© de modifier les conditions de\ndiffusion de ce Logiciel Initial.\n\nLe Titulaire s'engage ÃÂ  ce que le Logiciel Initial reste au moins rÃÂ©gi\npar le Contrat et ce, pour la durÃÂ©e visÃÂ©e ÃÂ  l'article 4.2 <#duree>.\n\n\n      6.2 SUR LES CONTRIBUTIONS\n\nLe LicenciÃÂ© qui a dÃÂ©veloppÃÂ© une Contribution est titulaire sur celle-ci\ndes droits de propriÃÂ©tÃÂ© intellectuelle dans les conditions dÃÂ©finies par\nla lÃÂ©gislation applicable.\n\n\n      6.3 SUR LES MODULES EXTERNES\n\nLe LicenciÃÂ© qui a dÃÂ©veloppÃÂ© un Module Externe est titulaire sur celui-ci\ndes droits de propriÃÂ©tÃÂ© intellectuelle dans les conditions dÃÂ©finies par\nla lÃÂ©gislation applicable et reste libre du choix du contrat rÃÂ©gissant\nsa diffusion.\n\n\n      6.4 DISPOSITIONS COMMUNES\n\nLe LicenciÃÂ© s'engage expressÃÂ©ment:\n\n 1.\n\n    ÃÂ  ne pas supprimer ou modifier de quelque maniÃÂ¨re que ce soit les\n    mentions de propriÃÂ©tÃÂ© intellectuelle apposÃÂ©es sur le Logiciel;\n\n 2.\n\n    ÃÂ  reproduire ÃÂ  l'identique lesdites mentions de propriÃÂ©tÃÂ©\n    intellectuelle sur les copies du Logiciel modifiÃÂ© ou non.\n\nLe LicenciÃÂ© s'engage ÃÂ  ne pas porter atteinte, directement ou\nindirectement, aux droits de propriÃÂ©tÃÂ© intellectuelle du Titulaire et/ou\ndes Contributeurs sur le Logiciel et ÃÂ  prendre, le cas ÃÂ©chÃÂ©ant, ÃÂ \nl'ÃÂ©gard de son personnel toutes les mesures nÃÂ©cessaires pour assurer le\nrespect des dits droits de propriÃÂ©tÃÂ© intellectuelle du Titulaire et/ou\ndes Contributeurs.\n\n\n    Article 7 - SERVICES ASSOCIES\n\n7.1 Le Contrat n'oblige en aucun cas le ConcÃÂ©dant ÃÂ  la rÃÂ©alisation de\nprestations d'assistance technique ou de maintenance du Logiciel.\n\nCependant le ConcÃÂ©dant reste libre de proposer ce type de services. Les\ntermes et conditions d'une telle assistance technique et/ou d'une telle\nmaintenance seront alors dÃÂ©terminÃÂ©s dans un acte sÃÂ©parÃÂ©. Ces actes de\nmaintenance et/ou assistance technique n'engageront que la seule\nresponsabilitÃÂ© du ConcÃÂ©dant qui les propose.\n\n7.2 De mÃÂªme, tout ConcÃÂ©dant est libre de proposer, sous sa seule\nresponsabilitÃÂ©, ÃÂ  ses licenciÃÂ©s une garantie, qui n'engagera que lui,\nlors de la redistribution du Logiciel et/ou du Logiciel ModifiÃÂ© et ce,\ndans les conditions qu'il souhaite. Cette garantie et les modalitÃÂ©s\nfinanciÃÂ¨res de son application feront l'objet d'un acte sÃÂ©parÃÂ© entre le\nConcÃÂ©dant et le LicenciÃÂ©.\n\n\n    Article 8 - RESPONSABILITE\n\n8.1 Sous rÃÂ©serve des dispositions de l'article 8.2\n<#limite-responsabilite>, le LicenciÃÂ© a la facultÃÂ©, sous rÃÂ©serve de\nprouver la faute du ConcÃÂ©dant concernÃÂ©, de solliciter la rÃÂ©paration du\nprÃÂ©judice direct qu'il subirait du fait du Logiciel et dont il apportera\nla preuve.\n\n8.2 La responsabilitÃÂ© du ConcÃÂ©dant est limitÃÂ©e aux engagements pris en\napplication du Contrat et ne saurait ÃÂªtre engagÃÂ©e en raison notamment:\n(i) des dommages dus ÃÂ  l'inexÃÂ©cution, totale ou partielle, de ses\nobligations par le LicenciÃÂ©, (ii) des dommages directs ou indirects\ndÃÂ©coulant de l'utilisation ou des performances du Logiciel subis par le\nLicenciÃÂ© et (iii) plus gÃÂ©nÃÂ©ralement d'un quelconque dommage indirect. En\nparticulier, les Parties conviennent expressÃÂ©ment que tout prÃÂ©judice\nfinancier ou commercial (par exemple perte de donnÃÂ©es, perte de\nbÃÂ©nÃÂ©fices, perte d'exploitation, perte de clientÃÂ¨le ou de commandes,\nmanque ÃÂ  gagner, trouble commercial quelconque) ou toute action dirigÃÂ©e\ncontre le LicenciÃÂ© par un tiers, constitue un dommage indirect et\nn'ouvre pas droit ÃÂ  rÃÂ©paration par le ConcÃÂ©dant.\n\n\n    Article 9 - GARANTIE\n\n9.1 Le LicenciÃÂ© reconnaÃÂ®t que l'ÃÂ©tat actuel des connaissances\nscientifiques et techniques au moment de la mise en circulation du\nLogiciel ne permet pas d'en tester et d'en vÃÂ©rifier toutes les\nutilisations ni de dÃÂ©tecter l'existence d'ÃÂ©ventuels dÃÂ©fauts. L'attention\ndu LicenciÃÂ© a ÃÂ©tÃÂ© attirÃÂ©e sur ce point sur les risques associÃÂ©s au\nchargement, ÃÂ  l'utilisation, la modification et/ou au dÃÂ©veloppement et ÃÂ \nla reproduction du Logiciel qui sont rÃÂ©servÃÂ©s ÃÂ  des utilisateurs avertis.\n\nIl relÃÂ¨ve de la responsabilitÃÂ© du LicenciÃÂ© de contrÃÂ´ler, par tous\nmoyens, l'adÃÂ©quation du produit ÃÂ  ses besoins, son bon fonctionnement et\nde s'assurer qu'il ne causera pas de dommages aux personnes et aux biens.\n\n9.2 Le ConcÃÂ©dant dÃÂ©clare de bonne foi ÃÂªtre en droit de concÃÂ©der\nl'ensemble des droits attachÃÂ©s au Logiciel (comprenant notamment les\ndroits visÃÂ©s ÃÂ  l'article 5 <#etendue>).\n\n9.3 Le LicenciÃÂ© reconnaÃÂ®t que le Logiciel est fourni \"en l'ÃÂ©tat\" par le\nConcÃÂ©dant sans autre garantie, expresse ou tacite, que celle prÃÂ©vue ÃÂ \nl'article 9.2 <#bonne-foi> et notamment sans aucune garantie sur sa\nvaleur commerciale, son caractÃÂ¨re sÃÂ©curisÃÂ©, innovant ou pertinent.\n\nEn particulier, le ConcÃÂ©dant ne garantit pas que le Logiciel est exempt\nd'erreur, qu'il fonctionnera sans interruption, qu'il sera compatible\navec l'ÃÂ©quipement du LicenciÃÂ© et sa configuration logicielle ni qu'il\nremplira les besoins du LicenciÃÂ©.\n\n9.4 Le ConcÃÂ©dant ne garantit pas, de maniÃÂ¨re expresse ou tacite, que le\nLogiciel ne porte pas atteinte ÃÂ  un quelconque droit de propriÃÂ©tÃÂ©\nintellectuelle d'un tiers portant sur un brevet, un logiciel ou sur tout\nautre droit de propriÃÂ©tÃÂ©. Ainsi, le ConcÃÂ©dant exclut toute garantie au\nprofit du LicenciÃÂ© contre les actions en contrefaÃÂ§on qui pourraient ÃÂªtre\ndiligentÃÂ©es au titre de l'utilisation, de la modification, et de la\nredistribution du Logiciel. NÃÂ©anmoins, si de telles actions sont\nexercÃÂ©es contre le LicenciÃÂ©, le ConcÃÂ©dant lui apportera son expertise\ntechnique et juridique pour sa dÃÂ©fense. Cette expertise technique et\njuridique est dÃÂ©terminÃÂ©e au cas par cas entre le ConcÃÂ©dant concernÃÂ© et\nle LicenciÃÂ© dans le cadre d'un protocole d'accord. Le ConcÃÂ©dant dÃÂ©gage\ntoute responsabilitÃÂ© quant ÃÂ  l'utilisation de la dÃÂ©nomination du\nLogiciel par le LicenciÃÂ©. Aucune garantie n'est apportÃÂ©e quant ÃÂ \nl'existence de droits antÃÂ©rieurs sur le nom du Logiciel et sur\nl'existence d'une marque.\n\n\n    Article 10 - RESILIATION\n\n10.1 En cas de manquement par le LicenciÃÂ© aux obligations mises ÃÂ  sa\ncharge par le Contrat, le ConcÃÂ©dant pourra rÃÂ©silier de plein droit le\nContrat trente (30) jours aprÃÂ¨s notification adressÃÂ©e au LicenciÃÂ© et\nrestÃÂ©e sans effet.\n\n10.2 Le LicenciÃÂ© dont le Contrat est rÃÂ©siliÃÂ© n'est plus autorisÃÂ© ÃÂ \nutiliser, modifier ou distribuer le Logiciel. Cependant, toutes les\nlicences qu'il aura concÃÂ©dÃÂ©es antÃÂ©rieurement ÃÂ  la rÃÂ©siliation du Contrat\nresteront valides sous rÃÂ©serve qu'elles aient ÃÂ©tÃÂ© effectuÃÂ©es en\nconformitÃÂ© avec le Contrat.\n\n\n    Article 11 - DISPOSITIONS DIVERSES\n\n\n      11.1 CAUSE EXTERIEURE\n\nAucune des Parties ne sera responsable d'un retard ou d'une dÃÂ©faillance\nd'exÃÂ©cution du Contrat qui serait dÃÂ» ÃÂ  un cas de force majeure, un cas\nfortuit ou une cause extÃÂ©rieure, telle que, notamment, le mauvais\nfonctionnement ou les interruptions du rÃÂ©seau ÃÂ©lectrique ou de\ntÃÂ©lÃÂ©communication, la paralysie du rÃÂ©seau liÃÂ©e ÃÂ  une attaque\ninformatique, l'intervention des autoritÃÂ©s gouvernementales, les\ncatastrophes naturelles, les dÃÂ©gÃÂ¢ts des eaux, les tremblements de terre,\nle feu, les explosions, les grÃÂ¨ves et les conflits sociaux, l'ÃÂ©tat de\nguerre...\n\n11.2 Le fait, par l'une ou l'autre des Parties, d'omettre en une ou\nplusieurs occasions de se prÃÂ©valoir d'une ou plusieurs dispositions du\nContrat, ne pourra en aucun cas impliquer renonciation par la Partie\nintÃÂ©ressÃÂ©e ÃÂ  s'en prÃÂ©valoir ultÃÂ©rieurement.\n\n11.3 Le Contrat annule et remplace toute convention antÃÂ©rieure, ÃÂ©crite\nou orale, entre les Parties sur le mÃÂªme objet et constitue l'accord\nentier entre les Parties sur cet objet. Aucune addition ou modification\naux termes du Contrat n'aura d'effet ÃÂ  l'ÃÂ©gard des Parties ÃÂ  moins\nd'ÃÂªtre faite par ÃÂ©crit et signÃÂ©e par leurs reprÃÂ©sentants dÃÂ»ment habilitÃÂ©s.\n\n11.4 Dans l'hypothÃÂ¨se oÃÂ¹ une ou plusieurs des dispositions du Contrat\ns'avÃÂ¨rerait contraire ÃÂ  une loi ou ÃÂ  un texte applicable, existants ou\nfuturs, cette loi ou ce texte prÃÂ©vaudrait, et les Parties feraient les\namendements nÃÂ©cessaires pour se conformer ÃÂ  cette loi ou ÃÂ  ce texte.\nToutes les autres dispositions resteront en vigueur. De mÃÂªme, la\nnullitÃÂ©, pour quelque raison que ce soit, d'une des dispositions du\nContrat ne saurait entraÃÂ®ner la nullitÃÂ© de l'ensemble du Contrat.\n\n\n      11.5 LANGUE\n\nLe Contrat est rÃÂ©digÃÂ© en langue franÃÂ§aise et en langue anglaise, ces\ndeux versions faisant ÃÂ©galement foi.\n\n\n    Article 12 - NOUVELLES VERSIONS DU CONTRAT\n\n12.1 Toute personne est autorisÃÂ©e ÃÂ  copier et distribuer des copies de\nce Contrat.\n\n12.2 Afin d'en prÃÂ©server la cohÃÂ©rence, le texte du Contrat est protÃÂ©gÃÂ©\net ne peut ÃÂªtre modifiÃÂ© que par les auteurs de la licence, lesquels se\nrÃÂ©servent le droit de publier pÃÂ©riodiquement des mises ÃÂ  jour ou de\nnouvelles versions du Contrat, qui possÃÂ©deront chacune un numÃÂ©ro\ndistinct. Ces versions ultÃÂ©rieures seront susceptibles de prendre en\ncompte de nouvelles problÃÂ©matiques rencontrÃÂ©es par les logiciels libres.\n\n12.3 Tout Logiciel diffusÃÂ© sous une version donnÃÂ©e du Contrat ne pourra\nfaire l'objet d'une diffusion ultÃÂ©rieure que sous la mÃÂªme version du\nContrat ou une version postÃÂ©rieure, sous rÃÂ©serve des dispositions de\nl'article 5.3.4 <#compatibilite>.\n\n\n    Article 13 - LOI APPLICABLE ET COMPETENCE TERRITORIALE\n\n13.1 Le Contrat est rÃÂ©gi par la loi franÃÂ§aise. Les Parties conviennent\nde tenter de rÃÂ©gler ÃÂ  l'amiable les diffÃÂ©rends ou litiges qui\nviendraient ÃÂ  se produire par suite ou ÃÂ  l'occasion du Contrat.\n\n13.2 A dÃÂ©faut d'accord amiable dans un dÃÂ©lai de deux (2) mois ÃÂ  compter\nde leur survenance et sauf situation relevant d'une procÃÂ©dure d'urgence,\nles diffÃÂ©rends ou litiges seront portÃÂ©s par la Partie la plus diligente\ndevant les Tribunaux compÃÂ©tents de Paris.\n",
            "name": "cecill-2.1",
            "hidden": null,
            "spdxId": "CECILL-2.1",
            "conditions": [
                "include-copyright",
                "disclose-source",
                "same-license"
            ],
            "permissions": [
                "commercial-use",
                "modifications",
                "distribution",
                "private-use",
                "patent-use"
            ],
            "featured": null,
            "nickname": null,
            "how": "Create a text file (typically named LICENSE or LICENCE) in the root of your source code and copy the text of the license into the file.",
            "title": "CeCILL Free Software License Agreement v2.1",
            "_implications": {
                "__impliedNames": [
                    "cecill-2.1",
                    "CECILL-2.1"
                ],
                "__obligations": {
                    "limitations": [
                        {
                            "tag": "ImpliedLimitation",
                            "contents": "liability"
                        },
                        {
                            "tag": "ImpliedLimitation",
                            "contents": "warranty"
                        }
                    ],
                    "rights": [
                        {
                            "tag": "ImpliedRight",
                            "contents": "commercial-use"
                        },
                        {
                            "tag": "ImpliedRight",
                            "contents": "modifications"
                        },
                        {
                            "tag": "ImpliedRight",
                            "contents": "distribution"
                        },
                        {
                            "tag": "ImpliedRight",
                            "contents": "private-use"
                        },
                        {
                            "tag": "ImpliedRight",
                            "contents": "patent-use"
                        }
                    ],
                    "conditions": [
                        {
                            "tag": "ImpliedCondition",
                            "contents": "include-copyright"
                        },
                        {
                            "tag": "ImpliedCondition",
                            "contents": "disclose-source"
                        },
                        {
                            "tag": "ImpliedCondition",
                            "contents": "same-license"
                        }
                    ]
                }
            },
            "description": "Strong copyleft license made by three French public research organisations, CEA, CNRS, and Inria, compatible with AGPL-3.0, EUPL-1.1, and GPL-2.0, or later versions of those licenses."
        }
    },
    "__impliedJudgement": [
        [
            "SPDX",
            {
                "tag": "PositiveJudgement",
                "contents": "Is OSI Approved"
            }
        ]
    ],
    "__impliedCopyleft": [
        [
            "HansHammel license-compatibility-checker",
            "NoCopyleft"
        ],
        [
            "Scancode",
            "WeakCopyleft"
        ]
    ],
    "__calculatedCopyleft": "WeakCopyleft",
    "__obligations": {
        "limitations": [
            {
                "tag": "ImpliedLimitation",
                "contents": "liability"
            },
            {
                "tag": "ImpliedLimitation",
                "contents": "warranty"
            }
        ],
        "rights": [
            {
                "tag": "ImpliedRight",
                "contents": "commercial-use"
            },
            {
                "tag": "ImpliedRight",
                "contents": "modifications"
            },
            {
                "tag": "ImpliedRight",
                "contents": "distribution"
            },
            {
                "tag": "ImpliedRight",
                "contents": "private-use"
            },
            {
                "tag": "ImpliedRight",
                "contents": "patent-use"
            }
        ],
        "conditions": [
            {
                "tag": "ImpliedCondition",
                "contents": "include-copyright"
            },
            {
                "tag": "ImpliedCondition",
                "contents": "disclose-source"
            },
            {
                "tag": "ImpliedCondition",
                "contents": "same-license"
            }
        ]
    },
    "__isOsiApproved": true,
    "__impliedText": "  CeCILL FREE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT\n\nVersion 2.1 dated 2013-06-21\n\n\n    Notice\n\nThis Agreement is a Free Software license agreement that is the result\nof discussions between its authors in order to ensure compliance with\nthe two main principles guiding its drafting:\n\n  * firstly, compliance with the principles governing the distribution\n    of Free Software: access to source code, broad rights granted to users,\n  * secondly, the election of a governing law, French law, with which it\n    is conformant, both as regards the law of torts and intellectual\n    property law, and the protection that it offers to both authors and\n    holders of the economic rights over software.\n\nThe authors of the CeCILL (for Ce[a] C[nrs] I[nria] L[ogiciel] L[ibre]) \nlicense are: \n\nCommissariat Ã  l'Ã©nergie atomique et aux Ã©nergies alternatives - CEA, a\npublic scientific, technical and industrial research establishment,\nhaving its principal place of business at 25 rue Leblanc, immeuble Le\nPonant D, 75015 Paris, France.\n\nCentre National de la Recherche Scientifique - CNRS, a public scientific\nand technological establishment, having its principal place of business\nat 3 rue Michel-Ange, 75794 Paris cedex 16, France.\n\nInstitut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique -\nInria, a public scientific and technological establishment, having its\nprincipal place of business at Domaine de Voluceau, Rocquencourt, BP\n105, 78153 Le Chesnay cedex, France.\n\n\n    Preamble\n\nThe purpose of this Free Software license agreement is to grant users\nthe right to modify and redistribute the software governed by this\nlicense within the framework of an open source distribution model.\n\nThe exercising of this right is conditional upon certain obligations for\nusers so as to preserve this status for all subsequent redistributions.\n\nIn consideration of access to the source code and the rights to copy,\nmodify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only\nwith a limited warranty and the software's author, the holder of the\neconomic rights, and the successive licensors only have limited liability.\n\nIn this respect, the risks associated with loading, using, modifying\nand/or developing or reproducing the software by the user are brought to\nthe user's attention, given its Free Software status, which may make it\ncomplicated to use, with the result that its use is reserved for\ndevelopers and experienced professionals having in-depth computer\nknowledge. Users are therefore encouraged to load and test the\nsuitability of the software as regards their requirements in conditions\nenabling the security of their systems and/or data to be ensured and,\nmore generally, to use and operate it in the same conditions of\nsecurity. This Agreement may be freely reproduced and published,\nprovided it is not altered, and that no provisions are either added or\nremoved herefrom.\n\nThis Agreement may apply to any or all software for which the holder of\nthe economic rights decides to submit the use thereof to its provisions.\n\nFrequently asked questions can be found on the official website of the\nCeCILL licenses family (http://www.cecill.info/index.en.html) for any \nnecessary clarification.\n\n\n    Article 1 - DEFINITIONS\n\nFor the purpose of this Agreement, when the following expressions\ncommence with a capital letter, they shall have the following meaning:\n\nAgreement: means this license agreement, and its possible subsequent\nversions and annexes.\n\nSoftware: means the software in its Object Code and/or Source Code form\nand, where applicable, its documentation, \"as is\" when the Licensee\naccepts the Agreement.\n\nInitial Software: means the Software in its Source Code and possibly its\nObject Code form and, where applicable, its documentation, \"as is\" when\nit is first distributed under the terms and conditions of the Agreement.\n\nModified Software: means the Software modified by at least one\nContribution.\n\nSource Code: means all the Software's instructions and program lines to\nwhich access is required so as to modify the Software.\n\nObject Code: means the binary files originating from the compilation of\nthe Source Code.\n\nHolder: means the holder(s) of the economic rights over the Initial\nSoftware.\n\nLicensee: means the Software user(s) having accepted the Agreement.\n\nContributor: means a Licensee having made at least one Contribution.\n\nLicensor: means the Holder, or any other individual or legal entity, who\ndistributes the Software under the Agreement.\n\nContribution: means any or all modifications, corrections, translations,\nadaptations and/or new functions integrated into the Software by any or\nall Contributors, as well as any or all Internal Modules.\n\nModule: means a set of sources files including their documentation that\nenables supplementary functions or services in addition to those offered\nby the Software.\n\nExternal Module: means any or all Modules, not derived from the\nSoftware, so that this Module and the Software run in separate address\nspaces, with one calling the other when they are run.\n\nInternal Module: means any or all Module, connected to the Software so\nthat they both execute in the same address space.\n\nGNU GPL: means the GNU General Public License version 2 or any\nsubsequent version, as published by the Free Software Foundation Inc.\n\nGNU Affero GPL: means the GNU Affero General Public License version 3 or\nany subsequent version, as published by the Free Software Foundation Inc.\n\nEUPL: means the European Union Public License version 1.1 or any\nsubsequent version, as published by the European Commission.\n\nParties: mean both the Licensee and the Licensor.\n\nThese expressions may be used both in singular and plural form.\n\n\n    Article 2 - PURPOSE\n\nThe purpose of the Agreement is the grant by the Licensor to the\nLicensee of a non-exclusive, transferable and worldwide license for the\nSoftware as set forth in Article 5 <#scope> hereinafter for the whole\nterm of the protection granted by the rights over said Software.\n\n\n    Article 3 - ACCEPTANCE\n\n3.1 The Licensee shall be deemed as having accepted the terms and\nconditions of this Agreement upon the occurrence of the first of the\nfollowing events:\n\n  * (i) loading the Software by any or all means, notably, by\n    downloading from a remote server, or by loading from a physical medium;\n  * (ii) the first time the Licensee exercises any of the rights granted\n    hereunder.\n\n3.2 One copy of the Agreement, containing a notice relating to the\ncharacteristics of the Software, to the limited warranty, and to the\nfact that its use is restricted to experienced users has been provided\nto the Licensee prior to its acceptance as set forth in Article 3.1\n<#accepting> hereinabove, and the Licensee hereby acknowledges that it\nhas read and understood it.\n\n\n    Article 4 - EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM\n\n\n      4.1 EFFECTIVE DATE\n\nThe Agreement shall become effective on the date when it is accepted by\nthe Licensee as set forth in Article 3.1 <#accepting>.\n\n\n      4.2 TERM\n\nThe Agreement shall remain in force for the entire legal term of\nprotection of the economic rights over the Software.\n\n\n    Article 5 - SCOPE OF RIGHTS GRANTED\n\nThe Licensor hereby grants to the Licensee, who accepts, the following\nrights over the Software for any or all use, and for the term of the\nAgreement, on the basis of the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter.\n\nBesides, if the Licensor owns or comes to own one or more patents\nprotecting all or part of the functions of the Software or of its\ncomponents, the Licensor undertakes not to enforce the rights granted by\nthese patents against successive Licensees using, exploiting or\nmodifying the Software. If these patents are transferred, the Licensor\nundertakes to have the transferees subscribe to the obligations set\nforth in this paragraph.\n\n\n      5.1 RIGHT OF USE\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to use the Software, without any limitation\nas to its fields of application, with it being hereinafter specified\nthat this comprises:\n\n 1. permanent or temporary reproduction of all or part of the Software\n    by any or all means and in any or all form.\n\n 2. loading, displaying, running, or storing the Software on any or all\n    medium.\n\n 3. entitlement to observe, study or test its operation so as to\n    determine the ideas and principles behind any or all constituent\n    elements of said Software. This shall apply when the Licensee\n    carries out any or all loading, displaying, running, transmission or\n    storage operation as regards the Software, that it is entitled to\n    carry out hereunder.\n\n\n      5.2 ENTITLEMENT TO MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS\n\nThe right to make Contributions includes the right to translate, adapt,\narrange, or make any or all modifications to the Software, and the right\nto reproduce the resulting software.\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to make any or all Contributions to the\nSoftware provided that it includes an explicit notice that it is the\nauthor of said Contribution and indicates the date of the creation thereof.\n\n\n      5.3 RIGHT OF DISTRIBUTION\n\nIn particular, the right of distribution includes the right to publish,\ntransmit and communicate the Software to the general public on any or\nall medium, and by any or all means, and the right to market, either in\nconsideration of a fee, or free of charge, one or more copies of the\nSoftware by any means.\n\nThe Licensee is further authorized to distribute copies of the modified\nor unmodified Software to third parties according to the terms and\nconditions set forth hereinafter.\n\n\n        5.3.1 DISTRIBUTION OF SOFTWARE WITHOUT MODIFICATION\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to distribute true copies of the Software in\nSource Code or Object Code form, provided that said distribution\ncomplies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:\n\n 1. a copy of the Agreement,\n\n 2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty\n    and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,\n\nand that, in the event that only the Object Code of the Software is\nredistributed, the Licensee allows effective access to the full Source\nCode of the Software for a period of at least three years from the\ndistribution of the Software, it being understood that the additional\nacquisition cost of the Source Code shall not exceed the cost of the\ndata transfer.\n\n\n        5.3.2 DISTRIBUTION OF MODIFIED SOFTWARE\n\nWhen the Licensee makes a Contribution to the Software, the terms and\nconditions for the distribution of the resulting Modified Software\nbecome subject to all the provisions of this Agreement.\n\nThe Licensee is authorized to distribute the Modified Software, in\nsource code or object code form, provided that said distribution\ncomplies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:\n\n 1. a copy of the Agreement,\n\n 2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty\n    and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,\n\nand, in the event that only the object code of the Modified Software is\nredistributed,\n\n 3. a note stating the conditions of effective access to the full source\n    code of the Modified Software for a period of at least three years\n    from the distribution of the Modified Software, it being understood\n    that the additional acquisition cost of the source code shall not\n    exceed the cost of the data transfer.\n\n\n        5.3.3 DISTRIBUTION OF EXTERNAL MODULES\n\nWhen the Licensee has developed an External Module, the terms and\nconditions of this Agreement do not apply to said External Module, that\nmay be distributed under a separate license agreement.\n\n\n        5.3.4 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER LICENSES\n\nThe Licensee can include a code that is subject to the provisions of one\nof the versions of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL in the\nModified or unmodified Software, and distribute that entire code under\nthe terms of the same version of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL.\n\nThe Licensee can include the Modified or unmodified Software in a code\nthat is subject to the provisions of one of the versions of the GNU GPL,\nGNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL and distribute that entire code under the\nterms of the same version of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL.\n\n\n    Article 6 - INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY\n\n\n      6.1 OVER THE INITIAL SOFTWARE\n\nThe Holder owns the economic rights over the Initial Software. Any or\nall use of the Initial Software is subject to compliance with the terms\nand conditions under which the Holder has elected to distribute its work\nand no one shall be entitled to modify the terms and conditions for the\ndistribution of said Initial Software.\n\nThe Holder undertakes that the Initial Software will remain ruled at\nleast by this Agreement, for the duration set forth in Article 4.2 <#term>.\n\n\n      6.2 OVER THE CONTRIBUTIONS\n\nThe Licensee who develops a Contribution is the owner of the\nintellectual property rights over this Contribution as defined by\napplicable law.\n\n\n      6.3 OVER THE EXTERNAL MODULES\n\nThe Licensee who develops an External Module is the owner of the\nintellectual property rights over this External Module as defined by\napplicable law and is free to choose the type of agreement that shall\ngovern its distribution.\n\n\n      6.4 JOINT PROVISIONS\n\nThe Licensee expressly undertakes:\n\n 1. not to remove, or modify, in any manner, the intellectual property\n    notices attached to the Software;\n\n 2. to reproduce said notices, in an identical manner, in the copies of\n    the Software modified or not.\n\nThe Licensee undertakes not to directly or indirectly infringe the\nintellectual property rights on the Software of the Holder and/or\nContributors, and to take, where applicable, vis-Ã -vis its staff, any\nand all measures required to ensure respect of said intellectual\nproperty rights of the Holder and/or Contributors.\n\n\n    Article 7 - RELATED SERVICES\n\n7.1 Under no circumstances shall the Agreement oblige the Licensor to\nprovide technical assistance or maintenance services for the Software.\n\nHowever, the Licensor is entitled to offer this type of services. The\nterms and conditions of such technical assistance, and/or such\nmaintenance, shall be set forth in a separate instrument. Only the\nLicensor offering said maintenance and/or technical assistance services\nshall incur liability therefor.\n\n7.2 Similarly, any Licensor is entitled to offer to its licensees, under\nits sole responsibility, a warranty, that shall only be binding upon\nitself, for the redistribution of the Software and/or the Modified\nSoftware, under terms and conditions that it is free to decide. Said\nwarranty, and the financial terms and conditions of its application,\nshall be subject of a separate instrument executed between the Licensor\nand the Licensee.\n\n\n    Article 8 - LIABILITY\n\n8.1 Subject to the provisions of Article 8.2, the Licensee shall be\nentitled to claim compensation for any direct loss it may have suffered\nfrom the Software as a result of a fault on the part of the relevant\nLicensor, subject to providing evidence thereof.\n\n8.2 The Licensor's liability is limited to the commitments made under\nthis Agreement and shall not be incurred as a result of in particular:\n(i) loss due the Licensee's total or partial failure to fulfill its\nobligations, (ii) direct or consequential loss that is suffered by the\nLicensee due to the use or performance of the Software, and (iii) more\ngenerally, any consequential loss. In particular the Parties expressly\nagree that any or all pecuniary or business loss (i.e. loss of data,\nloss of profits, operating loss, loss of customers or orders,\nopportunity cost, any disturbance to business activities) or any or all\nlegal proceedings instituted against the Licensee by a third party,\nshall constitute consequential loss and shall not provide entitlement to\nany or all compensation from the Licensor.\n\n\n    Article 9 - WARRANTY\n\n9.1 The Licensee acknowledges that the scientific and technical\nstate-of-the-art when the Software was distributed did not enable all\npossible uses to be tested and verified, nor for the presence of\npossible defects to be detected. In this respect, the Licensee's\nattention has been drawn to the risks associated with loading, using,\nmodifying and/or developing and reproducing the Software which are\nreserved for experienced users.\n\nThe Licensee shall be responsible for verifying, by any or all means,\nthe suitability of the product for its requirements, its good working\norder, and for ensuring that it shall not cause damage to either persons\nor properties.\n\n9.2 The Licensor hereby represents, in good faith, that it is entitled\nto grant all the rights over the Software (including in particular the\nrights set forth in Article 5 <#scope>).\n\n9.3 The Licensee acknowledges that the Software is supplied \"as is\" by\nthe Licensor without any other express or tacit warranty, other than\nthat provided for in Article 9.2 <#good-faith> and, in particular,\nwithout any warranty as to its commercial value, its secured, safe,\ninnovative or relevant nature.\n\nSpecifically, the Licensor does not warrant that the Software is free\nfrom any error, that it will operate without interruption, that it will\nbe compatible with the Licensee's own equipment and software\nconfiguration, nor that it will meet the Licensee's requirements.\n\n9.4 The Licensor does not either expressly or tacitly warrant that the\nSoftware does not infringe any third party intellectual property right\nrelating to a patent, software or any other property right. Therefore,\nthe Licensor disclaims any and all liability towards the Licensee\narising out of any or all proceedings for infringement that may be\ninstituted in respect of the use, modification and redistribution of the\nSoftware. Nevertheless, should such proceedings be instituted against\nthe Licensee, the Licensor shall provide it with technical and legal\nexpertise for its defense. Such technical and legal expertise shall be\ndecided on a case-by-case basis between the relevant Licensor and the\nLicensee pursuant to a memorandum of understanding. The Licensor\ndisclaims any and all liability as regards the Licensee's use of the\nname of the Software. No warranty is given as regards the existence of\nprior rights over the name of the Software or as regards the existence\nof a trademark.\n\n\n    Article 10 - TERMINATION\n\n10.1 In the event of a breach by the Licensee of its obligations\nhereunder, the Licensor may automatically terminate this Agreement\nthirty (30) days after notice has been sent to the Licensee and has\nremained ineffective.\n\n10.2 A Licensee whose Agreement is terminated shall no longer be\nauthorized to use, modify or distribute the Software. However, any\nlicenses that it may have granted prior to termination of the Agreement\nshall remain valid subject to their having been granted in compliance\nwith the terms and conditions hereof.\n\n\n    Article 11 - MISCELLANEOUS\n\n\n      11.1 EXCUSABLE EVENTS\n\nNeither Party shall be liable for any or all delay, or failure to\nperform the Agreement, that may be attributable to an event of force\nmajeure, an act of God or an outside cause, such as defective\nfunctioning or interruptions of the electricity or telecommunications\nnetworks, network paralysis following a virus attack, intervention by\ngovernment authorities, natural disasters, water damage, earthquakes,\nfire, explosions, strikes and labor unrest, war, etc.\n\n11.2 Any failure by either Party, on one or more occasions, to invoke\none or more of the provisions hereof, shall under no circumstances be\ninterpreted as being a waiver by the interested Party of its right to\ninvoke said provision(s) subsequently.\n\n11.3 The Agreement cancels and replaces any or all previous agreements,\nwhether written or oral, between the Parties and having the same\npurpose, and constitutes the entirety of the agreement between said\nParties concerning said purpose. No supplement or modification to the\nterms and conditions hereof shall be effective as between the Parties\nunless it is made in writing and signed by their duly authorized\nrepresentatives.\n\n11.4 In the event that one or more of the provisions hereof were to\nconflict with a current or future applicable act or legislative text,\nsaid act or legislative text shall prevail, and the Parties shall make\nthe necessary amendments so as to comply with said act or legislative\ntext. All other provisions shall remain effective. Similarly, invalidity\nof a provision of the Agreement, for any reason whatsoever, shall not\ncause the Agreement as a whole to be invalid.\n\n\n      11.5 LANGUAGE\n\nThe Agreement is drafted in both French and English and both versions\nare deemed authentic.\n\n\n    Article 12 - NEW VERSIONS OF THE AGREEMENT\n\n12.1 Any person is authorized to duplicate and distribute copies of this\nAgreement.\n\n12.2 So as to ensure coherence, the wording of this Agreement is\nprotected and may only be modified by the authors of the License, who\nreserve the right to periodically publish updates or new versions of the\nAgreement, each with a separate number. These subsequent versions may\naddress new issues encountered by Free Software.\n\n12.3 Any Software distributed under a given version of the Agreement may\nonly be subsequently distributed under the same version of the Agreement\nor a subsequent version, subject to the provisions of Article 5.3.4\n<#compatibility>.\n\n\n    Article 13 - GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION\n\n13.1 The Agreement is governed by French law. The Parties agree to\nendeavor to seek an amicable solution to any disagreements or disputes\nthat may arise during the performance of the Agreement.\n\n13.2 Failing an amicable solution within two (2) months as from their\noccurrence, and unless emergency proceedings are necessary, the\ndisagreements or disputes shall be referred to the Paris Courts having\njurisdiction, by the more diligent Party.\n",
    "__impliedURLs": [
        [
            "SPDX",
            "http://spdx.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1.json"
        ],
        [
            null,
            "http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-en.html"
        ],
        [
            "Homepage",
            "http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2.1-fr.html"
        ],
        [
            "OSI Page",
            "http://opensource.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1"
        ],
        [
            "OSI Page",
            "https://opensource.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1"
        ],
        [
            null,
            "https://opensource.org/licenses/CECILL-2.1"
        ]
    ]
}
....

==== Dot Cluster Graph

../dot/CECILL-2.1.svg